.\" @(#)faxG3.3 1.2 96/09/16 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH "faxG3" 3 "08 June 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
faxG3, faxG4 \- CCITT Group 3 and Group 4 compressors for compressed image
sequences
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Fax faxG3
.IX Fax faxG4
.IX Functions faxG3
.IX Functions faxG4
.IX Fax overview
.IX "CCITT Group 3 and Group 4 compressors" "overview"
.IX "CCITT Group 3 and Group 4 compressors" "faxG3"
.IX "CCITT Group 3 and Group 4 compressors" "faxG4" 
.nh
The XIL library provides compressors that conform to the specifications 
developed by the Consultative Committee of International Telegraph and
Telephone (CCITT) for Group 3 and Group 4 facsimile devices.  These standards
are supported in the XIL library as defined in recommendations T.4 and T.6 of 
Fascicle VII.3 (blue book) with the following exceptions: 2-dimensional 
coding and decoding for Group 3 devices is not currently supported, and no
optional extension modes for group 4 coding and decoding are supported. 
Support for these modes may occur in future releases.
.P
.nh
These compression techniques, originally formulated for facsimile devices, 
are now heavily used by makers of general document storage and retrieval
systems.  The XIL library's CCITT Group 3 compressor (faxG3) uses a run-length
encoding technique; the Group 4 (faxG4) compressor relies almost entirely on 
a two-dimensional technique.  On standard text, the XIL library's Group 3
compressor achieves a compression ratio of about 5:1, while the 
Group 4 compressor achieves a ratio of about 10:1.  For more information on
these compressors, consult the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SS Creating a CIS
.nh
To compress a compressed image sequence (CIS) with an XIL fax compressor, specify either "faxG3" or "faxG4" for the 
.I compressorname
argument in
.BR xil_cis_create (3).
.SS Getting and Setting Fax Attributes
.nh
Although other compression standards encode size information
(the image width, height,
and number of bands) within the bitstream, the fax standards do not.
Thus, if you put compressed data into your CIS using
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (3)
or
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (3)
you must set the decompressor attributes for width, height,
and number of bands; otherwise a call to
.BR xil_decompress (3)
generates an error.
.sp
Use 
.BR xil_cis_get_attribute (3)
and 
.BR xil_cis_set_attribute (3)
to get and set the fax decompression attributes.
.SS Fax Decompression Attributes
.nh
The following paragraphs describe the faxG3 and faxG4 CIS attributes available
with the XIL library. All structures and enumerations are defined in
.B xil.h.  
These attributes are "set-only," as indicated under the 
.I Access 
heading for each attribute.  
.PP
To set an attribute that is a structure, 
you must pass that structure's address.  To get an attribute,
you always pass its address.
.sp 2
.IX "Fax" "decompression attributes"
.IX "CCITT Group 3 and Group 4 compressors" "decompression attributes"
.P
.ne 10
.I WIDTH
.P
.TP 15
Description
defines width of image for fax decompressor
.TP 15
Access     
set-only
.TP 15 
Type       
short
.TP 15
Values
.I 0 - 32767
.TP 15
Default
.I 0
.ne 5
.TP 15
Notes 
.nh
Set the value of this attribute to the width in pixels of the
images to be decompressed.  If you do not set it, its value is 0 and 
an error occurs when you call
.BR xil_decompress (3),
as discussed above in "Getting and Setting Fax Attributes."
.nf
.sp
.fi
.P
.I HEIGHT
.P
.TP 15
Description
defines height of image for fax decompressor
.TP 15
Access     
set-only
.TP 15 
Type       
short
.TP 15
Values
.I 0 - 32767
.TP 15
Default
.I 0
.ne 5
.TP 15
Notes 
.nh
Set the value of this attribute to the height in pixels of the
images to be decompressed.  If you do not set it, its value is 0 and 
an error occurs when you call
.BR xil_decompress (3),
as discussed above in "Getting and Setting Fax Attributes."
.nf
.sp
.fi
.P
.I BANDS
.P
.TP 15
Description
defines number of bands in image for fax decompressor
.TP 15
Access    
set-only
.TP 15
Type      
short
.TP 15
Values
.I 0 - 32767
.TP 15
Default
.I 0
.ne 5
.TP 15
Notes
.nh
Set the value of this attribute to the number of bands in the
images to be decompressed.  If you do not set it, its value is 0 and 
an error occurs when you call
.BR xil_decompress (3),
as discussed above in "Getting and Setting Fax Attributes."
.sp 5
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
The following example opens and closes a faxG3 CIS using the XIL library:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilCis cis;
.ta 3.5i
State = xil_open(\^);
cis = xil_cis_create(State, \^"faxG3\^");  

-- calls to faxG3-specific compression routines --

xil_cis_destroy(cis);
xil_close(State);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.fi
.SH NOTES
.nh
The 
.B xil_cis_set_attribute
(\^) and
.B xil_cis_get_attribute
(\^) calls are used to modify the default behavior of a specific compressor.  Generic attributes of compressors are set by individual function calls.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_cis_create (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_attribute (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_bits_ptr (3),
.BR xil_compress (3),
.BR xil_decompress (3),
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (3),
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (3).
