.\" @(#)xil_decompress.3 1.2 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_decompress 3 "09 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_decompress \- decompress an image from a compressed image sequence
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_decompress ( XilCis " cis ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_decompress
.IX Functions xil_decompress
.IX "Video Compression Functions" "xil_decompress"
This function decompresses the current read frame in a compressed image sequence (CIS)
and puts its output into an image object.  It also increments the CIS's current read frame.
.I cis 
.nh
is the input compressed image sequence. 
.I dst 
is the output 
.I XilImage.  
If the function is successful, an image from the CIS
will be decompressed into the destination.
.LP
.nh
The XIL library supports a number of compression formats, including CCITT G3/G4, JPEG, MPEG-1, H.261,
Cell, and CellB.
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
If the destination image has had an ROI set on it (with 
.BR xil_set_roi (3) )
the ROI functions as a "write mask" for the destination image.
Note that, in general, decompression to destination images with ROIs will not
be accelerated by decompression molecules or by device-specific acceleration
libraries.
.SS Origin Behavior
.nh
Images stored in a CIS inherently have origins of 
.BR (0.0, 0.0). 
If a CIS image is decompressed into an image with a non-zero origin,
the normal origin handling procedures will be invoked. See
.BR xil_set_origin (3)
for more detail.
.SS XIL Decompressors
.nh
The XIL library provides the functions necessary to decompress an image 
or sequence of images from a CIS. The compressed data may have been
stored into the CIS either by using calls to 
.BR xil_compress (3)
or by inserting data into the CIS with 
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (3)
or 
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (3).
A standard XIL decompressor provides functions to:
.P
.in +4
Decompress data from a single frame of a CIS to an XilImage.
.P
.in +4
Provide a pointer to compressed data in a CIS. This can be
used by applications to write the data out to a file, for example.
.P
.in +4
Seek to a new position in a CIS.
.P
.in +4
Determine the number of frames remaining in the CIS.
.P
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide." 
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Decompress the current read frame of a compressed image sequence:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilCis cis; 
XilImage dst;
XilImageType type;
XilSystemState State;
.ta 3.5i
type = xil_cis_get_output_type(cis);
dst = xil_create_from_type(State, type);
while (xil_cis_has_frame(cis))
   xil_decompress(cis, dst);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.fi
.nh
The data type and number of bands of the destination image must match the attributes
of the images that are stored in the compressed image sequence.  Use 
.BR xil_cis_get_output_type (3) 
to get a CIS's image type. It is, however, permissible to decompress from
a CIS into an image with larger or smaller dimensions than that of the CIS
frame. In that case, the origins will be aligned and clipping calculations 
performed to find the intersected region.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_compress (3),
.BR xil_cis_has_frame (3), 
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (3), 
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (3), 
.BR xil_cis_get_output_type (3). 
