.\" @(#)xil_scale.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_scale 3 "16 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH "NAME"
xil_scale \- scale an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_scale (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "char *" interpolation ,
.br
.BI "float " xscale ,
.br
.BI "float " yscale );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_scale
.IX Functions xil_scale
.IX "Geometric Operations" "xil_scale"
This function scales an image about its origin.
By default, an image's origin
is its upper-left corner (0.0, 0.0). You can change the origin with the
.BR xil_set_origin (\^)
function.
.LP
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.I interpolation 
is a string that specifies the type of interpolation to be used.
The supported interpolation types are 
.I nearest
(nearest neighbor),
.I bilinear,
.I bicubic,
and
.I general.  xscale 
and
.I yscale
are the 
.I x 
and 
.I y 
scale factors. Scale factors of less than 1.0 reduce the size of an image in
.I x
and 
.I y.
.ft 1
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
If an ROI (region of interest) is attached to the source image, it is used as a read mask and is scaled into the destination image's space, where it is intersected with the destination ROI (if there is one).
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Scale an image by 2.3 in the 
.I x 
direction and 4.3 in the 
.I y 
direction using 
bicubic interpolation.
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src, dst;
.ta 3.5i
xil_scale(src, dst, "bicubic", 2.3, 4.3);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
The source and destination images to be scaled must be the same type and number of bands. This operation cannot be performed in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_affine (3).
