.\" @(#)xil_cis_put_bits.3 1.1 96/09/16 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_cis_put_bits 3 "13 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_cis_put_bits, xil_cis_put_bits_ptr \- put compressed data into a compressed image sequence
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "void xil_cis_put_bits (XilCis " cis , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "int " nbytes ,
.br
.BI "int " nframes ,
.br
.BI "void *" data );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (XilCis " cis , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "int " nbytes ,
.br
.BI "int " nframes ,
.br
.BI "void *" data ,
.br
.BI "XIL_FUNCPTR_DONE_WITH_DATA " done_with_data );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "typedef void (*XIL_FUNCPTR_DONE_WITH_DATA)(void *);"
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.IX xil_cis_put_bits
.IX Functions xil_cis_put_bits
.IX "Video Compression Functions" "xil_cis_put_bits"
.nh
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (\^)
copies
.I nbytes
of compressed data representing
.I nframes
frames of uncompressed data into the compressed image sequence
.I cis.
Parameter
.I data
is a generic pointer to the data being copied into the compressed image sequence (CIS).
.P
.IX xil_cis_put_bits_ptr
.IX Functions xil_cis_put_bits_ptr
.IX "Video Compression Functions" "xil_cis_put_bits_ptr"
.nh
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (\^)
puts
.I nbytes
of compressed data representing
.I nframes
frames of uncompressed data into the compressed image sequence
.I cis.
Parameter
.I data
is a generic pointer to the data being put into the CIS.
.P 
.nh 
Unlike
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (\^),
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (\^)
does not copy data
into the CIS; instead, the CIS directly
references the data pointed to by
.I data.
In this case, the application is responsible for ensuring that the data
remains valid. The application may supply a routine
.I done_with_data()
that is called when the particular buffer is no longer needed by
the CIS. The
.I done_with_data()
routine will also be called if the CIS is destroyed explicitly with
.BR xil_cis_destroy (3)
or implicitly with
.BR xil_close (3).
The application may supply NULL for the callback; in this case,
the application is responsible for determining when particular buffers
are no longer needed.
.P
.nh
The 
.I nframes 
parameter is used to specify how many frames of uncompressed
data the 
.I nbytes 
of compressed data represents. Used in this way, 
.I nframes
must be an integer greater than zero. If the exact number of complete frames
is not known, then 
.I nframes 
should be set to -1. This informs the CIS that
the data being placed into it contains one or more complete frames. 
.P
.nh
If the data being put into the CIS may not represent an integer number of frames, then 
.I nframes 
should be set to 0. This informs the CIS that the data being placed into it may contain 0 or more frames, and that the last frame and/or the first frame represented in this data may not be complete. 
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Copy bitstream data that contains 
.I frame_count 
frames into an 
.I XilCis:
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
XilCis cis;
xil_cis_put_bits(cis, bytes, frame_count, data);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.P
.nh
Copy bitstream data that contains an unknown number of complete frames (greater
than or equal to 1 frame) into an 
.I XilCis:
.RS
.nf
.ft3
XilCis cis;
xil_cis_put_bits(cis, bytes, -1, data);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.ne 20
.P
.nh
Insert into an 
.I XilCis 
bitstream data that contains some number of frames
in which the last and/or the first frame may or may not be complete:
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
XilCis cis;
xil_cis_put_bits_ptr(cis, bytes, 0, data, NULL);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
If error messages indicate that there is no more available free memory, try
increasing swap space.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_cis_create (3)

