.\" @(#)xil_create_from_type.3 1.4 97/05/19 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_create_from_type 3 "12 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_create_from_type \- create an image from an XilImageType object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilImage xil_create_from_type ( XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImageType " imagetype );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_create_from_type
.IX Functions xil_create_from_type
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_create_from_type"
This routine creates an image from an 
.I XilImageType 
object.  All the parameters needed to create the image are contained within the
.I XilImageType
object.  An
.I XilImageType
object is often used to describe the characteristics of an image that will be
generated (or expected) by a particular device (for example, a frame grabber
or an output device).  It can also be used as a shortcut for creating new
images equivalent to an existing image or imagetype without having to query
the image or imagetype for its individual characteristics.  The
characteristics of an
.I XilImageType
object are
.I xsize, ysize, nbands, datatype,
and
.I colorspace.
You can obtain an
.I XilImageType
object from a call to
.BR xil_get_imagetype (3),
.BR xil_imagetype_create (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_output_type (3)
or 
.BR xil_cis_get_input_type (3).
The origin of the returned image is initialized to (0.0, 0.0).
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
The default ROI is NULL.  If an ROI is NULL, operations are performed on the entire image.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Create an image of the appropriate type to decompress a CIS into:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState state;
XilImageType imagetype;
XilImage image;
XilCis cis;
.sp
imagetype = xil_cis_get_output_type (cis);
image = xil_create_from_type ( state, imagetype);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.fi
The data associated with the image is not automatically zeroed.  Use 
.BR xil_set_value (3)  
to do this.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_get_imagetype (3),
.BR xil_create (3),
.BR xil_create_copy (3),
.BR xil_create_from_device (3),
.BR xil_create_from_window (3),
.BR xil_create_temporary_from_type (3),
.BR xil_destroy (3),
.BR xil_get_origin (3),
.BR xil_set_origin (3),
.BR xil_get_roi (3),
.BR xil_set_roi (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_output_type (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_input_type (3).
