.\" @(#)xil_get_device_attribute.3 1.2 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_get_device_attribute 3 "01 April 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_get_device_attribute, xil_set_device_attribute \- get and set the values of attributes of device images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_get_device_attribute (XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" attribute ,
.br
.BI "void **" value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_set_device_attribute (XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" attribute ,
.br
.BI "void *" value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
These routines get and set the values of attributes of device images. 
.I image
is a handle to a device image.
.I attribute
is the name of an attribute, and
.I value
is the attribute's value. Attribute names and their possible
values are defined by the group that writes the device handler.
.P
.IX xil_get_device_attribute
.IX Functions xil_get_device_attribute
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_get_device_attribute"
.BR xil_get_device_attribute (\^)
gets a device-specific 
.I attribute.  
It returns XIL_SUCCESS if the 
attribute is available, and XIL_FAILURE if the specified attribute 
is not available.
.P
.IX xil_set_device_attribute
.IX Functions xil_set_device_attribute
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_set_device_attribute"
.BR xil_set_device_attribute (\^)
sets a device-specific 
.I attribute.  
It returns XIL_SUCCESS if the 
attribute is successfully set, and XIL_FAILURE otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Set the brightness of a frame-grabber input image:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
int brightness;
brightness = 100;
XilImage framegrabber_image;
.sp
status = xil_set_device_attribute(framegrabber_image, "BRIGHTNESS", 
	(void *)brightness);	
if(status==XIL_FAILURE)
   fprintf(stderr,"Setting BRIGHTNESS attribute failed");
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.P
Get the contrast of a frame-grabber input image:
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
int contrast;
XilImage framegrabber_image;
.sp
status = xil_get_device_attribute(framegrabber_image, "CONTRAST", 
	(void **)&contrast);
if(status==XIL_FAILURE)
   fprintf(stderr,"Getting CONTRAST attribute failed");
.fi
.ft 1
.RE
.SH NOTES
.BR xil_set_device_attribute (\^)
is used to set the attributes of an existing device image;
it cannot be used to initialize attribute values before
creating the device image. To initialize device attributes, use
.BR xil_device_set_value (\^).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_create_from_window (3),
.BR xil_create_from_device (3),
.BR xil_get_attribute (3),
.BR xil_get_readable (3),
.BR xil_get_writable (3),
.BR xil_device_create (3),
.BR xil_device_set_value (3).
