.\" @(#)xil_paint.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_paint 3 "16 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_paint \- perform paint on specified point list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_paint (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "float *" color ,
.br
.BI "XilKernel " brush ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " count ,
.br
.BI "float *" coord_list );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_paint
.IX Functions xil_paint
.IX "Presentation Functions" "xil_paint"
This function blends portions of an image with a single color using a 2-D brush.  The brush is applied for each point in a list of coordinates.  For each entry in the brush, the associated pixel in the image is colored.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.I color
is a pointer to the floating-point array that specifies the brush color [0...(nbands-1)] for each pixel.
.I brush
is a kernel with values between 0.0 and 1.0.  
.P
The destination value is 
determined by this equation:
.sp 
.nf
dst_pixel = (brush_value * color) + ((1.0 - brush_value) * src_pixel)
.sp
.fi
Where the brush value is 0.0, the destination value is the source value.
Where the brush value is 1.0, the destination value is the paint color.
.P
.I count
is the count of 
.I x,y
coordinate pairs.
.I coord_list
is a pointer to the floating-point array that specifies the
.I x,y
coordinate
pairs.
.ft 1
.fi
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
This function performs the paint operation in the source image on each point in the coordinate list.  The painted pixels within the ROI (region of interest) are output to the destination image.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.sp
.ne 25
.SH EXAMPLES
For this example, the source and destination images contain 2 bands.  Create a 2 x 2 brush with the key pixel at the upper left corner of the kernel.  Perform paint at pixel (x,y) = (100,75).
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src;
XilImage dst;
float paint_color[2] = {127.0, 255.0};
XilKernel brush;
float brush_data[4] = {1.0, 0.5, 0.5, 0.0};
unsigned int count = 1;
float coord_list[2] =  {100.0, 75.0};
.sp
brush = xil_kernel_create(system_state,2,2,0,0,brush_data);
.sp
.ta 3.5i
xil_paint(src, dst, paint_color, brush, count, coord_list);
.RE
.fi
.ne 20
.SH NOTES
.nh
Source and destination images must be the same data type and have the
same number of bands.  For an n-band image, the array of floating point numbers for 
.I color 
must be of size n.  Only pixels that are blended with the paint color are output to the destination image.  In-place operations are supported.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_kernel_create (3),
.BR xil_kernel_destroy (3),
.BR xil_blend (3).



