.\" @(#)xil_get_tilesize.3 1.3 97/02/17 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_get_tilesize 3 "01 January 1997" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_get_tilesize, xil_set_tilesize \- get and set the tile size of an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_get_tilesize (XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int *" tile_xsize ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int *" tile_ysize );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_set_tilesize (XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " tile_xsize ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " tile_ysize );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.IX xil_get_tilesize
.IX Functions xil_get_tilesize
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_get_tilesize"
.BR xil_get_tilesize (\^)
returns the current tile size of the image's data. The image
must first be exported via the
.BR xil_export (\^)
call, as the tile size is subject
to change while under XIL's control. The tile size can be used to access the
image's storage on a tile basis to avoid the costly overhead of cobbling
the image into one contiguous memory buffer. If the tiling mode is the default XIL_WHOLE_IMAGE, then the \f2tile_xsize\fP and \f2tile_ysize\fP returned are the image's width and height respectively.
.P
.IX xil_set_tilesize
.IX Functions xil_set_tilesize
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_set_tilesize"
.BR xil_set_tilesize (\^)
allows the user to set a new tile size on the image. The
image must be exported via
.BR xil_export (3)
before the user can change the tile
size. If the image already has data associated with it, changing the tile size
will cause a potentially expensive internal reformatting of the existing data.
In cases where the existing data is not needed, the user should use a
different
image or destroy and recreate the image using
.BR xil_destroy (3)
and
.BR xil_create (3).
If the tiling mode is the default XIL_WHOLE_IMAGE, then \f2tile_xsize\fP and \f2tile_ysize\fP can only be set to greater than or equal to the image's width and height respectively.
.P
.SH NOTES
.nh
While an image is imported the tile size may change. Therefore it is necessary
that the user re-obtain the tile size after every
.BR xil_import (3)
and subsequent
.BR xil_export (3).
.P
Care should be taken in changing the tile size for an image. Operations
between images with different tile sizes are slower than operations between
images with the same tile size. XIL chooses a default tile size for all images
according to the configuration. Imprudent tile sizes can cause significant
performance penalties.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_get_tile_storage (3),
.BR xil_set_tile_storage (3),
.BR xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode (3),
.BR xil_state_get_default_tile_size (3)
