.\" @(#)xil_compress.3 1.2 97/05/12 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_compress 3 "04 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_compress \- compress an image and write it to a compressed image sequence
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_compress ( XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilCis " cis );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_compress
.IX Functions xil_compress
.IX "Video Compression Functions" "xil_compress"
.nh
This function compresses an image and writes the compressed data to a compressed image sequence (CIS).
.P
.I src 
is the image (possibly a device image) containing the uncompressed data
to be compressed.
.P
.I cis 
is the compressed image sequence into which the compressed data will be
written.  The compressor to be used is established when the CIS is created
with the 
.I xil_cis_create 
(3) call.
.P
.nh
This function appends the compressed image at the CIS's current 
.I write_frame
location, and then increments
.I write_frame.
Frame insertions at random points in the cis are not supported. Note that even after the 
.B xil_compress
(\^) operation occurs, the data for that frame is not guaranteed to be
retrievable by an 
.BR xil_cis_get_bits_ptr (3) 
function, nor to be detectable by an 
.BR xil_cis_has_data (3) 
operation, until 
.BR xil_cis_flush (3) 
is called.
.P
Unless the CIS is reset, with a call to 
.BR xil_cis_reset (3),
all frames written to a CIS must have the same width, height, number of
bands and datatype.
.SS XIL Compressors
.nh
The XIL library provides the functions necessary to compress an image or sequence of images.  
A standard XIL compressor provides functions to:
.P
.in +4
Compress data and place it in a CIS 
.BR ( xil_compress (3) ).
.P
.in +4
Take user-supplied compressed data and copy it into a cis
.BR ( xil_cis_put_bits (3) ).
.P
.in +4
Take a pointer to user-supplied compressed data and treat it
as compressed frames by reference, eliminating the need to copy 
.BR ( xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (3) ).
.P
.in +4
Determine how much data a CIS contains.
.P
.in +4
Empty a CIS.
.P
The standard XIL library currently supports compression for the following 
set of compression formats.
.P
.in +4
.br
Cell
.br
CellB
.br
Jpeg
.br
Jpeg Lossless
.br
CCITT G3 Fax
.br
CCITT G4 Fax
.in
.P
In addition, support is provided for third parties to develop compression
implementations for the Mpeg-1 and H.261 standards.
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
This function does not support source image ROIs.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Compress an image into a compressed image sequence:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src;
XilCis cis;
XilImageType type;
XilSystemState State;
.sp
type = xil_cis_get_input_type(cis);
src = xil_create_from_type(State, type);
/* generate the src image... */
xil_compress( src, cis );
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
The 
.I XilImageType 
of the source image must match the input 
.I XilImageType 
of the CIS.  Use 
.BR xil_cis_get_input_type (3) 
to determine the required type.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_decompress (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_bits_ptr (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_input_type (3),
.BR xil_cis_create (3),
.BR xil_cis_number_of_frames (3),
.BR xil_cis_flush (3),
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (3),
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (3).
