.\" @(#)xil_storage_create.3 1.7 97/06/17 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_storage_create 3 "01 January 1997" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_storage_create, xil_storage_destroy \- create and destroy XilStorage object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilStorage xil_storage_create (XilSystemState " State,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage* " image );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_storage_destroy (XilStorage " storage );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.nh
.IX xil_storage_create
.IX Functions xil_storage_create
.IX "Storage Functions" "xil_storage_create" 
.B xil_storage_create
(\^) creates an XilStorage object. At creation, all attributes of the storage object are intitialized to zero or NULL, with the exception of the storage type, which is initialized to XIL_GENERAL. All setting and getting of storage 
description parameters is accomplished using a set of API bindings for 
accessing the XilStorage object.  Although the XilImage is associated with the
storage at creation, the XilStorage object does not contain information about
the image's storage until storage parameters are explicitly set with
.BR xil_get_tile_storage (\^),
or by the application.
.BR xil_storage_create (\^)
does not need to be called in order to use the
.BR xil_get_storage_with_copy (\^)
call.
.P
.BR xil_storage_destroy
(\^) destroys the specified XilStorage object.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Create storage associated with an image and then access the storage located
at the upper left corner of the image.
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilImage image;
XilStorage storage;
.sp
/*
 * load the image from elsewhere...
 */
.sp
storage = xil_storage_create(image);
xil_export(image);
xil_get_tile_storage(image, 0, 0, storage);
.sp
/*
 *  access the information and data in the storage object....
 */
.sp
/*
 *  After use, destroy the storage object.
 */
xil_storage_destroy(storage);
.fi
.ft
.RE
.P 
.sp
.ne 10
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH NOTES
.nh
The use of the XilStorage object is mutually exclusive with the
.BR xil_get_memory_storage (\^)
and
.BR xil_set_memory_storage (\^)
calls.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Storage (3),
.BR xil_set_storage_with_copy (3),
.BR xil_get_tile_storage (3),
.BR xil_set_tile_storage (3),
.BR xil_storage_set_scanline_stride (3),
.BR xil_storage_set_pixel_stride (3),
.BR xil_storage_set_band_stride (3),
.BR xil_storage_set_offset (3),
.BR xil_storage_set_data (3),
.BR xil_storage_is_type (3).

