.\" @(#)xil_create_copy.3 1.2 97/05/19 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_create_copy 3 "09 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_create_copy \- create a new image with a copy of the source's data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilImage xil_create_copy ( XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " xstart ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " ystart ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " width ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " height ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " startband ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " numbands );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_create_copy
.IX Functions xil_create_copy
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_create_copy"
This routine creates a new image with its own copy of the source's data.  
.I xstart
is the horizontal offset in pixels from the upper-left corner of the source image to the upper-left corner of the subimage.  
.I ystart
is the vertical offset in pixels from the upper-left corner of the source image to the upper-left corner of the subimage.  
.I width
is the width of the subimage in pixels.  
.I height
is the height of the subimage in pixels.  
.I startband
is the offset in bands, starting from the first band, to the first band in the subimage.  
.I numbands
is the number of bands in the subimage.
.P
.nh
Copies of images have the same XilVersion number as the original image.  
The name of a copy is initially empty (NULL).
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
The default ROI is NULL.  If an ROI is NULL, operations are performed on the entire image.  The ROI and the origin of the source image are ignored in 
the copy operation and are therefore set to the default value. The color space will be that of the source image.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.ft 1
.nh
Create a 512 x 512 5-band, 16-bit image. Then copy a 100 x 100 image that 
begins at offset (200, 250) comprising the middle 3 bands into a new image:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage image1, image2;
.sp
image1 = xil_create(512, 512, 5, XIL_SHORT);
image2 = xil_create_copy (image1, 200, 250, 100, 100, 1, 3);
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_create (3),
.BR xil_create_child (3),
.BR xil_create_from_device (3),
.BR xil_create_from_type (3),
.BR xil_create_from_window (3),
.BR xil_destroy (3),
.BR xil_set_roi (3),
.BR xil_get_roi (3).
