.\" @(#)xil_state_get_show_action.3 1.1 96/09/16 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_state_get_show_action 3 "16 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_state_get_show_action, xil_state_set_show_action \- show information about when deferred actions are taken and which actions have been put together into molecules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_state_get_show_action (XilSystemState " State );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_state_set_show_action (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "int " env_on_off );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_state_get_show_action
.IX Functions xil_state_get_show_action
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_state_get_show_action"
XIL provides a deferred execution facility that automatically recognizes
certain sequences of XIL functions (atoms) and executes the sequences
as a single high-performance molecule. An example is a sequence of XIL functions
that scales (implicitly capturing) and compresses an image. XIL defers execution
of the scale function to see if a compression function follows. If it does,
the two functions are executed together as a high-performance molecule.
XIL defines a set of general-purpose molecules that perform
sequences of operations such as color conversion and decompression.
.P
To determine if XIL functions are executing within molecules, set the
SHOW_ACTION attribute of
.I XilSystemState.
This causes the XIL library to print a message to
.I stderr
whenever an
operation that affects an XIL image or compressed image sequence is executed.
.P
.B xil_state_get_show_action
(\^) gets the current value of the SHOW_ACTION attribute of
.I State.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_state_set_show_action
.IX Functions xil_state_set_show_action
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_state_set_show_action"
.B xil_state_set_show_action
(\^) sets the current value of the SHOW_ACTION attribute of
.I State.
.P
.nh
When 
.SM SHOW_ACTION 
is set to -1, the XIL library checks the value of the
environment variable 
.SM XIL_DEBUG, 
and it sets the attribute 
.SM SHOW_ACTION 
to 0 if the environment variable 
.SM XIL_DEBUG 
does not contain the string "show_action"; it sets the attribute to 1 if
.SM XIL_DEBUG 
contains the string "show_action".
.P
.nh
The default value for 
.SM SHOW_ACTION 
is -1. When 
.SM SHOW_ACTION 
is 1, the library prints information to 
.I stderr 
about when deferred actions happen and when they are combined into molecules.
When 
.SM SHOW_ACTION 
is 0, no information is printed.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Show the output of 
.SM XIL_SHOW_ACTION 
in a segment of code, but only
if the 
.SM XIL_DEBUG 
environment variable is set to "show_action".
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
State = xil_open();
xil_state_set_show_action(State, 0);    /* turn off default behavior */
/* ... set up code ... */
xil_state_set_show_action(State, -1);   /* turn on output (only if environment */
				          /* variable is set) */
/* ... area of interest ... */
xil_state_set_show_action(State, 0);    /* turn off output */
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
These functions do not produce any semantic differences in the execution of the program.  They are only useful for debugging and performance tuning.  Consult the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide
for information on performance tuning.



