.\" @(#)xil_get_imagetype.3 1.2 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_get_imagetype 3 "17 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH "NAME"
xil_get_imagetype \- get an XilImageType object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilImageType xil_get_imagetype (XilImage " image );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_get_imagetype
.IX Functions xil_get_imagetype
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_get_imagetype"
This function returns an
.I XilImageType
object that contains information about the size, data type, and
color space of an 
.I image.
This function may be called on all images.  An
.I XilImageType
object describes the characteristics of an image that will be generated (or
expected) by a particular device (for example, a frame grabber or an output
device).  The characteristics of an
.I XilImageType
object are
.I xsize, ysize, nbands, datatype,
and
.I colorspace.
You obtain an
.I XilImageType
object from a call to
.BR xil_cis_get_output_type (3)
or 
.BR xil_cis_get_input_type (3).
You use an
.I XilImageType
object to create images (via an
.BR xil_create_from_type (3)
call) that will be compatible with a given device, compressor, and so on. 
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Get the imagetype of a particular image:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage image;
XilImageType imagetype;
.ta 3.5i
.sp
imagetype = xil_get_imagetype (image);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
After
.I image
is destroyed, the handle to the 
.I XilImageType 
object is no longer valid.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_create_from_type (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_output_type (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_input_type (3),
.BR xil_create_temporary_from_type (3).
