.\" @(#)xil_blend.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_blend 3 "10 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_blend \- blend two images according to an alpha image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_blend ( XilImage " src1 ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " src2 ,
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "XilImage " alpha );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_blend
.IX Functions xil_blend
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_blend"
This function blends two images according to an alpha image. For each pixel in the sources, the corresponding pixel in the alpha image provides a value that determines a linear combination of the source pixel values. The destination value is determined by this equation:
.nf
	dst = (1.0 - normalize(alpha)) * src1 + normalize(alpha) * src2
.fi
.P
.nh
.I src1 
and 
.I src2
are the source image handles.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.I alpha
is the alpha image handle.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Blend 
.I src1 
and 
.I src2 
according to 
.I alpha 
and put the result in 
.I dst:
.sp
.nf
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src1, src2, dst, alpha;
.sp
.ta 3.5i
xil_blend(src1, src2, dst, alpha);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
The source images and destination images must be the same type and have the
same number of bands.  The alpha image must be a single-band image and can be any of the supported data types. In-place operations are supported.

