.\" @(#)xil_choose_colormap.3 1.1 96/09/18 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_choose_colormap 3 "17 September 1996" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_choose_colormap \- choose a best-fit colormap for a 24 bit 3-band image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "XilLookup xil_choose_colormap ( XilImage " src , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " size );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_choose_colormap
.IX Functions xil_choose_colormap
.IX "Presentation Functions" "xil_choose_colormap"
This function creates and returns an 
.I XilLookup 
colormap with
.I size
entries to represent the full-color (usually 24 bit)
.I src 
(source) image.
.I size
specifies the number of colormap entries in the resulting 
.I XilLookup 
object.
.BR xil_choose_colormap (\^)
accepts only 3 banded XIL_BYTE source images. The colormap which is
produced will also have 3 output bands.
.P
The colormap selection algorithm attempts to produce a set of
.I size
color triplets which produce the minimum amount of error when used
to represent the 24 bit image.
The normal use for this function is to produce a colormap which can be used
on an 8 bit indexed-color framebuffer to display 24 bit color images. 
It would be used in conjunction with xil_nearest_color(3), which would
map the color triplets in the image to the closest entry in the colormap.
.P
The user is responsible for destroying the lookup table when it is no longer
required, using 
.BR xil_lookup_destroy(3).
.SH RETURN VALUES
The desired XilLookup object, or NULL (could not generate
.I XilLookup
).
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Create a reasonable 
.I XilLookup 
with 216 colormap entries to represent the full-color source image:
.LP
.RS
.ft B
.nf
XilImage     src; /* 3 band XIL_BYTE source image */
XilImage     dst; /* 1 band XIL_BYTE destination image */
XilLookup    cmap;

/* Leave some free colors for the window system */
unsigned int cmap_size = 216;

/* Generate the best colormap */
cmap = xil_choose_colormap(src, cmap_size);

/* Assign the closest colormap entries */
xil_nearest_color(src, dst, cmap);
.fi
.ft
.RE
