.\" @(#)xil_cis_create.3 1.3 97/05/12 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_cis_create 3 "18 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_cis_create \- create a new compressed image sequence
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "XilCis xil_cis_create ( XilSystemState " system_state , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" compressorname );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_cis_create
.IX Functions xil_cis_create
.IX "CIS Functions" "xil_cis_create" 
.nh
This function creates a new compressed image sequence (CIS).
A CIS is a container that holds compressed images. On creation, it is
associated with a particular type of compressor and will then hold only 
frames of that type.
.P
.I system_state
is a handle to the object returned by 
.BR xil_open (3)
when it is invoked. 
.P
.I compressorname
is a string that provides the name of a compressor recognized by the 
XIL library. XIL currently supports the following set of compression 
types.
.P
.in +4
"Jpeg"
.br
"JpegLL"
.br
"Cell"
.br
"CellB"
.br
"faxG3"
.br
"faxG4"
.br
"Mpeg1"
.br
"H261"
.in
.P
Consult the man page of the same name for details about the individual
compression types.
.P
If this function is successful, then a handle to an
.I XilCis
object is returned, which may be used in subsequent calls to xil_cis-routines.  When  the 
.I XilCis 
object is no longer needed, release the resources associated with the CIS by passing its handle to 
.BR xil_cis_destroy (3).
.SH ERRORS
.nh
If the
.BR xil_cis_create(\^) 
call fails, a value of NULL is returned.
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide." 
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Open and close a JPEG CIS using the XIL library:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilCis cis;
.ta 3.5i
State = xil_open(\^);
cis = xil_cis_create(State, \^"Jpeg\^");  

-- calls to JPEG-specific compression routines --

xil_cis_destroy(cis);
xil_close(State);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_open (3),
.BR xil_close (3),
.BR xil_cis_destroy (3),
.BR xil_cis_flush (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_state (3),
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (3),
.BR xil_cis_reset (3),
.BR xil_cis_seek (3),
.BR xil_compress (3),
.BR xil_decompress (3).
