.\" @(#)xil_color_convert.3 1.3 97/05/19 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_color_convert 3 "09 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_color_convert \- converts an image from one color space to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_color_convert (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_color_convert
.IX Functions xil_color_convert
.IX "Color Operations" "xil_color_convert"
This function converts the data in the source image from the source image's color space to the destination image's color space. The color space is an attribute of each image.
.I src
.nh
is the source image's handle.
.I dst
is the destination image's handle.  Neither the source nor the destination
image can be a NULL image or have a NULL color space. This function does not support the XIL_FLOAT data type.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Converts the data in 
.I src 
from 
.I ycc601 
colorspace to data in
.I dst
in
.I rgblinear 
colorspace:
.sp
.LP
.nf
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilColorspace cspace1, cspace2;
XilImage src, dst;
.sp
cspace1 = xil_colorspace_get_by_name(State, "ycc601");
xil_set_colorspace(src, cspace1);
.sp
cspace2 = xil_colorspace_get_by_name(State, "rgblinear");
xil_set_colorspace(dst, cspace2);
.sp
.ta 3.5i
xil_color_convert(src, dst);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
The source and destination images must be the same data type.
The number of bands in an image must match its color space.  In-place operations can be
done by creating a child image consisting of the whole image and then assigning a different
color space to the child image.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_colorspace_get_by_name (3),
.BR xil_set_colorspace (3),
.BR xil_black_generation (3).

