.\" @(#)xil_copy_with_planemask.3 1.2 97/01/27 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_copy_with_planemask 3 "03 February 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_copy_with_planemask \- using a plane mask, copy a source
image into a destination image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "void xil_copy_with_planemask (XilImage " src , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " planemask[] );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_copy_with_planemask
.IX Functions xil_copy_with_planemask
.IX "Planemask Operations" "xil_copy_with_planemask" 
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_copy_with_planemask" 
.nh
.B xil_copy_with_planemask
(\^) copies a 
.I src
(source) image into a specified 
.I dst
(destination) image, using a 
.I plane mask
to specify which source-image planes (bits) are copied.  
.sp
Each pixel in the destination image is defined by the following operation:
.sp
dst = (dst & ~mask) | (src & mask)
.sp
Here, 
.I dst
is the destination image,
.I mask
is the plane mask, and
.I src
is the source image. Thus, if the plane-mask bit is "on,"
the copy overwrites the corresponding bit in the destination image;
otherwise, the bit in the destination image is unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Copy the low order bit of 
.I src1 
into the
.I dst
low order bit. Copy the
high order seven bits of 
.I src2 
into the
.I dst
high order seven bits:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilImage src1;
XilImage src2;
XilImage dst;
unsigned int planemask1 = 0x1;
unsigned int planemask2 = 0xfe;
.sp
xil_copy_with_planemask(src1, dst, &planemask1);
xil_copy_with_planemask(src2, dst, &planemask2);
.fi
.ft
.RE
.SH NOTES
.nh
The plane mask is an array of unsigned integers. The number of array
elements must match the number of image bands; each array element
specifies the plane mask for the corresponding band in the destination.
Both the source and destination images must have the same
type and number of bands. Standard ROI and in-place operations
are supported.
.sp
When using a plane mask for copying an image to the display, the 
window's depth is the upper limit on the number of meaningful bits you can
set in the plane mask, and you must manipulate the colormap to get a
reasonable display.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_copy (3),
.BR xil_copy_pattern (3).
