.\" @(#)xil_sel_get_by_name.3 1.1 96/09/11 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_sel_get_by_name 3 "16 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_sel_get_by_name, xil_sel_get_name, xil_sel_set_name \- get and set a structuring element (SEL) object name
and get a handle to a SEL by specifying its name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilSel xil_sel_get_by_name (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" name );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "char* xil_sel_get_name (XilSel " sel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_sel_set_name (XilSel " sel ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" name ); 
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
Use these functions to assign names to SEL objects, get the name of a SEL, and to
retrieve SEL objects by name. 
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_get_by_name
.IX Functions xil_sel_get_by_name
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_get_by_name"
.B xil_sel_get_by_name
(\^) returns the handle to the SEL object with the specified name 
.I name.
If such a SEL object does not exist, NULL is returned.  
.B xil_sel_get_by_name
(\^) does not make a copy of the SEL object.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_get_name
.IX Functions xil_sel_get_name
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_get_name"
.B xil_sel_get_name
(\^) returns a copy of the specified SEL object's name.  A call to 
.B free
(3) should be used to free the space allocated by 
.B xil_sel_get_name
(\^). If the specified SEL object has no name, NULL is returned.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_set_name
.IX Functions xil_sel_set_name
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_set_name"
.B xil_sel_set_name
(\^) sets the name of the specified SEL object to the one provided.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a structuring element named "rect3x3":
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilSystemState State;
XilSel sel;
unsigned int data[] = {
.in +8
1  1  1
1  1  1
1  1  1 
.in
};
.sp
sel = xil_sel_create(State, 3, 3, 0, 0, data);
xil_sel_set_name(sel, "rect3x3");
.fi
.ft
.RE
.P 
Use a structuring element named "rect3x3" to erode an image:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilSystemState State;
XilImage src, dst;
XilSel sel;
.sp
sel = xil_sel_get_by_name(State, "rect3x3");
xil_erode(src, dst, sel);
.fi
.ft
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR xil_sel_create (3),
.BR xil_sel_destroy (3),
.BR xil_sel_get_name (3),
.BR xil_sel_set_name (3).
