.\" @(#)xil_copy_pattern.3 1.2 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_copy_pattern 3 "09 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_copy_pattern \- replicate the source image into the destination image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_copy_pattern (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_copy_pattern
.IX Functions xil_copy_pattern
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_copy_pattern"
This routine replicates the source image into the destination image.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.P
.nh
For example, if the the size of the source image is 64 x 64 and the size of the destination image is 256 x 128, then the destination
image will have (256 / 64 ) * (128 / 64) = 8 copies of the source image.
The size of the destination image does not have to be an even multiple
of the size of the source image.
.ft 1
.fi
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
The source image ROI is repeated to be the same size as the destination image before
intersection with the destination ROI.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Replicate the source image into the destination image:
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src, dst;
.ta 3.5i
xil_copy_pattern(src, dst);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
Source and destination images must be the same data type and have the same number of bands.  In-place operations are not supported.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_copy (3)

