.\" @(#)xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode.3 1.2 97/02/25 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode 3 "27 May 1997" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode, xil_state_set_default_tiling_mode - get  and  set the default tiling mode for all images created with a particular XilSystemState
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "XilTilingMode xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode (XilSystemState " State );
.br
.sp
.BI "int xil_state_set_default_tilesize (XilSystemState " State,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilTilingMode " tiling_mode );
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode
.IX Functions xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode"
.IX xil_state_set_default_tiling_mode
.IX Functions xil_state_set_default_tiling_mode
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_state_set_default_tiling_mode"
\f2tiling mode\fP is the tiling mode of the images, which can be one of the following enumeration constants of type XilTiling mode:
.sp
.fi
.TP 17
.nh
XIL_WHOLE_IMAGE
The default setting. Each image is stored as a contiguous memory buffer.
.TP 17
.nh
XIL_TILING
Very large images are stored in separate buffers of contiguous memory. Each of the buffers is the tile_xsize by the tile_ysize.
.TP 17
XIL_STRIPPING
Images are stored in a contiguous memory buffer, but accessed as separate "strips". Each strip is the width of the image by the tile_ysize.
.P
.B xil_state_get_default_tiling_mode () 
returns the tiling mode to be used for all images created under \f2State\fP. Unless modified by a call to 
.B xil_state_set_default_tiling_mode ()
, the default tiling mode is always XIL_WHOLE_IMAGE.
.P
.B xil_state_set_default_tiling_mode () 
sets the tiling mode to be used for all images created under \f2State\fP. If not set by the user, the default tiling mode is XIL_WHOLE_IMAGE.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH NOTES
When the tiling mode is set to XIL_WHOLE_IMAGE, the user can only call 
.BR xil_set_tilesize (3)
on an image with a \f2tile_xsize\fP greater than or equal to the image width, and \f2tile_ysize\fP greater than or equal to the image height.
.P
When the tiling mode of an image is set to XIL_STRIPPING, the user can only explicitly set the tile_xsize to 0 or to a value greater than or equal to the width of the image. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_get_tilesize (3),
.BR xil_set_tilesize (3),
.BR xil_state_get_default_tilesize (3),
.BR xil_state_set_default_tilesize (3).
