.\" @(#)xil_translate.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_translate 3 "17 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_translate \- translate an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_translate (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "char *" interpolation ,
.br
.BI "float " xoffset ,
.br
.BI "float " yoffset );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_translate
.IX Functions xil_translate
.IX "Geometric Operations" "xil_translate"
This function translates an image.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.I interpolation 
is a string that specifies the type of interpolation to be used.  The supported interpolation types are  
.I nearest
(nearest neighbor),
.I bilinear,
.I bicubic,
and
.I general.  xoffset 
and
.I yoffset
are the number of pixels to translate or shift the image in
the horizontal or vertical directions, respectively.
Postive values for
.I xoffset
and
.I yoffset
shift an image to the right and down, respectively.
Negative values shift to left and up.
.ft 1
.fi
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
If an ROI (region of interest) is attached to the source image, it is used as a read mask and is translated into the destination image's space, where it is intersected with the destination ROI (if there is one).
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Translate an image by 12.3 pixels horizontally and 43.2 pixels vertically
using nearest neighbor interpolation.
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src, dst;
.ta 3.5i
xil_translate(src, dst, "nearest", 12.3, 43.2);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
The source and destination images must be 
the same data type and number of bands.  This operation cannot be performed in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_affine (3)
