.\" @(#)xil_tablewarp.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_tablewarp 3 "29 March 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_tablewarp, xil_tablewarp_horizontal, xil_tablewarp_vertical \- warp an image with a user-specified warp table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_tablewarp (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "char* " interpolation ,
.br
.BI "XilImage " warp_table );
.br
.fi
.in
.BI "void xil_tablewarp_horizontal (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "char* " interpolation ,
.br
.BI "XilImage " warp_table );
.br
.fi
.in
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_tablewarp_vertical (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "char* " interpolation ,
.br
.BI "XilImage " warp_table );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_tablewarp
.IX Functions xil_tablewarp
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_tablewarp"
.IX "Geometric Operations" "xil_tablewarp"
These functions warp an image with the specified warp table.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.I interpolation
is a string that specifies the interpolation to be used. The supported interpolation types are nearest (nearest neighbor), bilinear, bicubic, and general.
.I warp_table
is a handle to an 
.I XilImage 
structure that describes the backward mapping from a pixel in the destination to a pixel in the source. 
.P
A warp table is an XIL image whose pixel values define the backward
mapping from a pixel in the destination to a pixel in the source.
The warp table is applied at the origin of 
the destination image. The source origin is then added to the backward 
mapping position specified by the warp table. A warp table must have either
datatype XIL_SHORT or XIL_FLOAT, though it can be used to warp images
of any data type. 
The XIL_SHORT value is interpreted 
as fixed point wth 12 bits value and 4 bits of precision. 
.P
The warp table for
.B xil_tablewarp
(\^) is a 2-banded image where the bands specify the displacement in 
.I x 
and the displacement in 
.I y. 
The warp table for
.B xil_tablewarp_horizontal 
(\^) and
.B xil_tablewarp_vertical
(\^) is 1-banded and specifies the displacement in the 
.I x 
and 
.I y 
directions, respectively.
.LP
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
Because a warp table is technically an XIL image, it can have a defined
region of interest
(ROI). However, an ROI is meaningless in a warp table and is therefore
ignored.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
For this example, a warp table is created to produce the same effect as translation. This example translates a 100 x 120 block from src origin to the right and down with offset (26.0, 37.0) using bilinear interpolation.
.LP
.nf
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilImage src, dst, warp_table;
float values[2];
.sp
warp_table = xil_create(State, 100, 120, 2, XIL_SHORT);
/* multiply offsets by 16 because of 12 bit values with 4 bit precision */
values[0] = 26.0 * 16;
values[1] = 37.0 * 16;
xil_set_value(warp_table, values);
.sp
.ta 3.5i
xil_tablewarp(src, dst, "bilinear", warp_table);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.sp
.ne 10
.SH NOTES
.nh
Source and destination images must be the same data type and have the 
same number of bands. The images need not have the same width and height. 
This operation cannot be performed in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_set_origin (3),
.BR xil_set_pixel (3),
.BR xil_set_value (3).

