.\" @(#)xil_black_generation.3 1.1 96/09/16 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_black_generation 3 "16 September 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_black_generation \- adjust the amount of black to be added to or removed from a CMYK image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_black_generation (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "float " black,
.br
.BI "float " undercolor );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_black_generation
.IX Functions xil_black_generation
.IX "Color Operations" "xil_black_generation"
This function adjusts the amount of black to be added to and removed from an image.
Both
.I src
and
.nh
.I dst
are image handles to a 4-band CMYK image.
.I black
is the fraction of color that forms the K channel.
.I undercolor
represents the fraction of color taken away from each of the C, M, and Y channels.
.P
.nh
Channels for each pixel are defined as follows:
.sp
.nf
black channnel		=	black * (minimum of C, M, Y)  
cyan channel		=	C - (undercolor * (minimum of C, M, Y))
magenta channel	=	M - (undercolor * (minimum of C, M, Y))
yellow channel		=	Y - (undercolor * (minimum of C, M, Y))
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Adjust a CMYK image:
.LP
.nf
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src, dst;
.sp
xil_black_generation(src, dst, 0.7, 0.5);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
It is assumed that all imported CMYK images are generated by using the same
function for black generation and undercolor removal. Regions of interest
are ignored when you perform undercolor removal.  In-place 
operations are supported.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_color_convert (3),
.BR xil_set_colorspace (3).
