.\" @(#)xil_create_from_special_window.3 1.8 97/05/30 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_create_from_special_window 3 "7 January 1998" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_create_from_special_window \- create device images from an enhanced capability window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilImage"
.br
.BI "xil_create_from_special_window(XilSystemState " State ,
.br
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "Display *" display ,
.br
.BI "Window " window ,
.br
.BI "XilWindowcaps " wincaps );
.br
.ft R

.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
This function creates an XIL display image from a window with special
display capabilities. In the current release, these capabilities include
double-buffering and stereo, or a combination of both.
These routines create images that are tied to particular devices.
.P
The type XilWindowCaps is an enumerated type that currently has two
values:
.nf

     XIL_DOUBLE_BUFFER
     XIL_STEREO

.fi
These values may be bitwise or'ed to affect multiple capabilities,
such as double-buffered stereo.
.P
.BR xil_create_from_special_window
(\^) creates an image associated with the specified X window in the same way that 
.BR xil_create_from_window
(\^) does, except that it attempts to establish the special capabilities.
If the requested capabilities are not supported on the display device,
the call will return NULL. It is then the developer's responsibilty
to catch the failure and fall back to creating a normal display
image, if appropriate for the application.
.P
.nh
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide." 
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Create a double_buffered XIL display image, copy a stereo pair to it,
and bring it to the front display.
.sp
.nf
.ft 3
    XilSystemState State;
    XilImage stereo;
    XilImage left, right;
    Display* display;
    Window window;

    /* 
     *  Create a double-buffered XIL display image from existing 
     *  X display and window 
     */
    stereo = xil_create_from_window(State, display, window,
                                    XIL_DOUBLE_BUFFER | XIL_STEREO);

    if(stereo == NULL) {
        /* Handle failure */
    }

    xil_set_active_buffer(stereo, XIL_BACK_LEFT_BUFFER);
    xil_copy(left, stereo);
    xil_set_active_buffer(stereo, XIL_BACK_RIGHT_BUFFER);
    xil_copy(right, stereo);
    xil_swap_buffers(stereo);
.sp
.fi
.SH NOTES
xil_create_from_special_window() can provide the same functionality as
xil_create_double_buffered_window() if given the XilWindowCaps
parameter of XIL_DOUBLE_BUFFER.
.P
On creation of multiple-buffered display images, there will be a 
default active buffer.
.nf

     XIL_DOUBLE_BUFFER:               XIL_BACK_BUFFER
     XIL_STEREO:                      XIL_LEFT_BUFFER
     XIL_DOUBLE_BUFFER | XIL_STEREO:  XIL_BACK_LEFT_BUFFER

.fi
It is good practice, however, to explicitly set the active buffer
before any read or write operation.
.nh
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_create_from_window (3),
.BR xil_create_double_buffered_window (3),
.BR xil_swap_buffers (3),
.BR xil_get_active_buffer (3),
.BR xil_set_active_buffer (3).

