.\" @(#)xil_threshold.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_threshold 3 "17 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_threshold \- set value of image pixel bands within a specified range
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_threshold (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "float *" low ,
.br
.BI "float *" high ,
.br
.BI "float *" map );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_threshold
.IX Functions xil_threshold
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_threshold"
For each band of an image, this function maps to a constant
all the values that fall between a low value and
a high value.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.I low
is a pointer to the floating-point array that specifies the low value of the range
for band [0...(nbands-1)].
.I low[0]
is the low value for band 0, and so forth.
.I high
is a pointer to the floating-point array that specifies the high value of the range for band [0...(nbands-1)].
.I high[0]
is the high value for band 0, and so forth.
.I map
is a pointer to the floating-point array that specifies the map value for each pixel band within the range [low:high].
.LP
For an n-band image, the array of floats for 
.I low, 
.I high, 
and 
.I map 
must be of size n.  Each band is independently evaluated for its range.
Values outside the range are passed through without change.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
For this example, the source and destination images contain 2 bands.  Force each pixel in band[0] between [192:255] to value 191.  Force each pixel in band[1] between [0:63] to value 64.
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src;
XilImage dst;
float low[2] =  {192.0, 0.0};
float high[2] = {255.0, 63.0};
float map[2] =  {191.0, 64.0};
.ta 3.5i
xil_threshold(src, dst, low, high, map);
.RE
.fi
.SH NOTES
.nh
Source and destination images must be the same data type and have the same number of bands.
In-place operations are supported.


