.\" @(#)xil_subsample_binary_to_gray.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_subsample_binary_to_gray 3 "10 June 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_subsample_binary_to_gray \- subsample a binary image and produce a
grayscale (byte) image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_subsample_binary_to_gray (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "float " xscale ,
.br
.BI "float " yscale );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_subsample_binary_to_gray
.IX Functions xil_subsample_binary_to_gray
.IX "Geometric Operations" "xil_subsample_binary_to_gray"
This function subsamples a binary image and produces a grayscale (byte) image.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
.nh
is the destination image handle.
.I xscale 
and
.I yscale
are the 
.I x 
and 
.I y 
scale factors, which must be less than or equal to 1.0 and
greater than 0.0.
.sp
The subsampling algorithm performs the scaling operation
by accumulating all the bits in the source image
that correspond to the destination pixel and, based on the
.I x
and
.I y
scaling factors,
reserving consecutive indexes in the colormap for
the maximum number of gray levels possible in the destination image.
You must modify your colormap to define a gray level for each resulting
index. 
.sp
For representing the source block of pixels that is used to 
determine destination pixel values, the
index 0 represents a block with no 1's (all 0's),
the index 1 represents a block with a single 1, and so on.
If the scaling factors require a fractional block of source pixels
to determine the destination pixel values, the block size is rounded up.
For example, if a 2.2-by-2.2 block of source pixels would be
required to determine destination pixel values, a 3-by-3 block is
used, resulting in 10 possible gray levels and therefore
10 colormap indexes, whose values are 0 through 9.
.ft 1
.fi
.SS ROI Behavior
.LP
.nh
If an ROI (region of interest) is attached to the source image, it is used as
a read mask and is scaled into the destination image's space, where it is
intersected with the destination ROI (if there is one).
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Subsample a binary image by .3 in the 
.I x 
direction and .4 in the 
.I y 
direction to produce a byte image:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src, dst;
.ta 3.5i
xil_subsample_binary_to_gray(src, dst, .3, .4);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.fi
.nh
This operation cannot be performed in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_subsample_adaptive (3),
.BR xil_scale (3).

