.\" @(#)xil_get_by_name.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_get_by_name 3 "17 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_get_by_name, xil_get_name, xil_set_name \- get and set an image object name and get a handle to an image by specifying a name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilImage xil_get_by_name (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" name );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "char* xil_get_name (XilImage " image );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_set_name (XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" name ); 
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
Use these functions to assign names to image objects, to read an image's name, and to
retrieve image objects by name.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_get_by_name
.IX Functions xil_get_by_name
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_get_by_name"
.BR xil_get_by_name (\^)
returns the handle to the image with the specified name 
.I name.
If such an image does not exist, NULL is returned.  
.B xil_get_by_name
(\^) does not make a copy of the image.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_get_name
.IX Functions xil_get_name
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_get_name"
.BR xil_get_name (\^)
returns a copy of the specified image's name.  A call to 
.B free
(3) should be used to free the space allocated by 
.BR xil_get_name (\^)
 If the specified image has no name, NULL is returned.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_set_name
.IX Functions xil_set_name
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_set_name"
.BR xil_set_name (\^)
sets the name of the specified image to the one provided.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a 5x5 3-band blank test image called "empty5x5x3": 
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilSystemState State;
XilImage image;
float values[] = { 0.0, 0.0, 0.0 };
.sp
image = xil_create(State,5,5,3,XIL_BYTE);
xil_set_value(image, values);
xil_set_name(image, "empty5x5x3");
.fi
.ft
.RE
.P 
Use an image named "empty5x5x3" to zero a portion of another image:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilSystemState State;
XilImage zero_image, src, src_child;
.sp
zero_image = xil_get_by_name (State,"empty5x5x3");
src_child = xil_create_child (src, 100, 100, 5, 5, 1, 3);
xil_multiply (src_child, zero_image, src_child);
.fi
.ft
.RE
.sp
.ne 10
.SH NOTES
.nh
If you give two images the same name, it is not defined which image
will be retrieved by a call to 
.BR xil_get_by_name (\^).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_create_child (3).
