.\" @(#)xil_open.3 1.1 96/09/16 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_open 3 "16 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_open, xil_close \- open and close an XIL session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilSystemState xil_open ();"
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_close (XilSystemState " State );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_open
.IX Functions xil_open
.IX "General Utility Functions" "xil_open"
.BR xil_open (3)
is used to begin an XIL session.  It must be called before any other 
XIL routine.  A single 
.I XilSystemState 
object is created and returned when 
.BR xil_open (3)
is invoked. If the function is successful, a handle to the 
.I XilSystemState 
object is returned.  This object can only be destroyed by a subsequent 
call to 
.BR xil_close (3)
using the specified handle.
.P
.nh
When
.BR xil_open (3)
is called, the XIL library attempts to open and load all of the compute
pipelines specified in the machine's XIL configuration files.  All of the XIL
library's capabilities are enabled after this call.
.P
.IX xil_close
.IX Functions xil_close
.IX "General Utility Functions" "xil_close"
.B xil_close (3) is used to end an XIL session.  A handle to the 
.I XilSystemState 
.nh
object describing the session to be terminated is passed to the function.  The 
.I XilSystemState 
system state object and all internal resources associated with the given XIL
session are destroyed.  XIL objects created during the session at the
application's request must be released by the appliction using the appropriate
XIL destroy calls.  Application writers are expected to destroy the XIL
objects they create.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Open and close the XIL Library:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
.ta 3.5i
State = xil_open(\^);
...
..calls to XIL..
...
xil_close(State);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.fi
.SH NOTES
.nh
Multiple calls to 
.BR xil_open (\^) 
produce completely separate system states that provide completely separate XIL
environments.  Objects created in one environment can be used by other
environments.  This feature is intended to allow layered software that uses
the XIL library to be independent from other layered software using the XIL
library.
.P
If your program creates a display image and you do not destroy the image with
.BR xil_destroy (\^),
you must close the XIL library (with
.BR xil_close (\^))
before you disconnect your program from the X server.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_create (3),
.BR xil_cis_create (3),
.BR xil_kernel_create (3),
.BR xil_lookup_create (3),
.BR xil_roi_create (3),
.BR xil_sel_create (3),
.BR xil_kernel_get_by_name (3),
.BR xil_lookup_get_by_name (3),
.BR xil_dithermask_get_by_name (3),
.BR xil_colorspace_get_by_name (3).
