.\" @(#)xil_sel_get_height.3 1.2 97/02/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_sel_get_height 3 "16 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_sel_get_height, xil_sel_get_width, xil_sel_get_key_x, xil_sel_get_key_y
\- read the values of structuring element attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_sel_get_height ( XilSel " sel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_sel_get_width ( XilSel " sel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_sel_get_key_x ( XilSel " sel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_sel_get_key_y ( XilSel " sel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.nf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
These routines read the values of structuring element (SEL) objects used in erosion and dilation imaging operations. Key values specify the key pixel position - a position relative to the upper left corner of the SEL.  The key pixel aligns with the output pixel and constrains which input pixels are used to generate the output.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_get_height
.IX Functions xil_sel_get_height
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_get_height"
.B xil_sel_get_height
(\^) gets the height of the specified SEL.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_get_width
.IX Functions xil_sel_get_width
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_get_width"
.B xil_sel_get_width
(\^) gets the width of the specified SEL.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_get_key_x
.IX Functions xil_sel_get_key_x
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_get_key_x"
.B xil_sel_get_key_x
(\^) gets the
.I x
coordinate of the key value of the specified SEL.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_get_key_y
.IX Functions xil_sel_get_key_y
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_get_key_y"
.B xil_sel_get_key_y
(\^) gets the
.I y
coordinate of the key value of the specified SEL.
.P
.nh
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Get the coordinates of a SEL's key value:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSel sel;
unsigned int key_x, key_y;
.ta 3.5i
.sp
key_x = xil_sel_get_key_x (sel);
key_y = xil_sel_get_key_y (sel);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_erode (3),
.BR xil_dilate (3),
.BR xil_sel_create (3),
.BR xil_sel_create_copy (3),
.BR xil_sel_destroy (3).

