.\" @(#)xil_colorspacelist_create.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_colorspacelist_create 3 "6 May 1997" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_colorspacelist_create, xil_colorspacelist_destroy, xil_colorspacelist_get_name, xil_colorspacelist_set_name, xil_colorspacelist_get_by_name \- create, destroy, get name, set name, get by name an XilColorspaceList object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "XilColorspaceList* xil_colorspacelist_create(XilSystemState* " system_state ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilColorspaceType " colorspace_array ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " num_colorspaces );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_colorspacelist_destroy(XilColorspaceList* " colorspacelist );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_colorspacelist_set_name(XilColorspaceList " colorspacelist ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char* " name );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "char* xil_colorspacelist_get_name(XilColorspaceList* " colorspacelist );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "XilColorspaceList* xil_colorspacelist_get_by_name(XilSystemState* " state ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char* " name );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_colorspacelist_create
.IX Functions xil_colorspacelist_create
.IX xil_colorspacelist_destroy
.IX Functions xil_colorspacelist_destroy
.IX xil_colorspacelist_set_name
.IX Functions xil_colorspacelist_set_name
.IX xil_colorspacelist_get_name
.IX Functions xil_colorspacelist_get_name
.IX xil_colorspacelist_get_by_name
.IX Functions xil_colorspacelist_get_by_name
These functions create, destroy, set and get a name, and get a color-space list given 
a name, for an XilColorspaceList object.
.P
.B xil_colorspacelist_create() 
creates an XilColorspaceList object as specified by the list in 
.I colorspace_array. 
.I num_colorspaces 
should be less than or equal to the number of color spaces in the list. 
.P
.B xil_colorspacelist_destroy() 
destroys the specified 
.I colorspacelist.
.P
.B xil_colorspacelist_set_name() 
sets the name of 
.I colorspacelist 
with name.
.P
.B xil_colorspacelist_get_name() 
gets any associated name of 
.I colorspacelist. 
If no name is set on 
.I colorspacelist, 
it returns NULL.
.P
.B xil_colorspacelist_get_by_name() 
returns an XilColorspaceList object associated with name. If there is no associated XilColorspaceList object, it returns NULL.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
This example sets a name on an existing color-space list.
.sp
.nf
.ft 3

    /*
     * Set a name on a color-space list 
     */
    xil_colorspacelist_set_name(colorspacelist, "myname");	
.sp
.ft 1
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xil_color_correct (3).
