.\" @(#)xil_rotate.3 1.2 96/09/12 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_rotate 3 "11 September 1996" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_rotate \- rotate an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_rotate (XilImage " src,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "char *" interpolation ,
.br
.BI "float " angle );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_rotate
.IX Functions xil_rotate
.IX "Geometric Operations" "xil_rotate"
This function rotates an image about its origin. By default, an image's origin
is its upper-left corner (0.0, 0.0). You can change the origin with the
.BR xil_set_origin (\^)
function.
.LP
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.I interpolation 
is a string that specifies the type of interpolation to be used.
The supported interpolation types are 
.I nearest
(nearest neighbor),
.I bilinear,
.I bicubic,
and
.I general.  angle 
is the angle of rotation in radians.  A positive angle indicates
counterclockwise rotation; a negative angle indicates clockwise
rotation.
.ft 1
.fi
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
If an ROI (region of interest) is attached to the source image, it is used as a read mask and is rotated into the destination image's space, where it is intersected with the destination ROI (if there is one).
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Rotate an image clockwise by 45 degrees (0.7854 radians) using bilinear
interpolation:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src, dst;
.ta 3.5i
xil_rotate(src, dst, "bilinear", -0.7854);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
The source and destination images to be rotated must be the same type and number of bands. This operation cannot be performed in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_affine (3),
.BR xil_scale (3),
.BR xil_set_origin (3),
.BR xil_transpose (3).
