.\" @(#)xil_cis_get_start_frame.3 1.1 96/09/16 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_cis_get_start_frame 3 "09 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_cis_get_start_frame, xil_cis_get_read_frame, xil_cis_get_write_frame \- obtain frame status attributes. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.P
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "int xil_cis_get_start_frame (XilCis " cis );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_cis_get_read_frame (XilCis " cis );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_cis_get_write_frame (XilCis " cis );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
In each of these routines, 
.I cis
is the input compressed image sequence (CIS).  Every frame in a CIS has a frame
number associated with it.  The beginning of the CIS is frame number zero.  
A CIS may have one or more frames buffered in memory.  The
.I start_frame
is the index of the earliest buffered frame that still resides in the CIS. The
.I read_frame 
is the index of the next frame that will be read by routines such as 
.BR xil_cis_get_bits_ptr (3) 
or 
.BR xil_decompress (3).
The 
.I write_frame 
is the next frame that will be written.  Routines such as
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (3)  
or  
.BR xil_compress (3)
add new frames immediately at this frame and increment the 
.I write_frame
index each time they write a frame.
.P
.IX  xil_cis_get_start_frame
.IX Functions xil_cis_get_start_frame
.IX "CIS Functions" "xil_cis_get_start_frame"
.nh
.BR xil_cis_get_start_frame (\^)
returns the index, relative to the beginning of the CIS, of the first
compressed image still buffered in the CIS.
.P
.IX xil_cis_get_read_frame
.IX Functions xil_cis_get_read_frame
.IX "CIS Functions" "xil_cis_get_read_frame" 
.nh
.BR xil_cis_get_read_frame (\^)
returns the index of the current read frame, i.e. the one that will be decompressed next. 
.P
.IX xil_cis_get_write_frame
.IX Functions xil_cis_get_write_frame
.IX "CIS Functions" "xil_cis_get_write_frame"  
.nh
.BR xil_cis_get_write_frame (\^)
returns the index of the next frame to be written.  Thus,  
.I write_frame
- 1 is the last complete frame in the CIS. If a partial or an unknown number of frames exist in the CIS because calls to 
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (\^)
 or 
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (\^)
have not yet been resolved, then the decompressor must parse the data to determine how many frames are in the CIS.  This can make
.BR xil_cis_get_write_frame (\^)
potentially expensive.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilCis cis;
.sp
printf("Current Read Frame is %d\\n",
	xil_cis_get_read_frame(cis));
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_compress (3),
.BR xil_decompress (3),
.BR xil_cis_seek (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_bits_ptr (3),
.BR xil_cis_put_bits_ptr (3).
