.\" @(#)xil_kernel_get_by_name.3 1.2 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_kernel_get_by_name 3 "04 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_kernel_get_by_name, xil_kernel_get_name, xil_kernel_set_name \- get and set a kernel object name and get a handle to
a kernel by specifying its name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilKernel xil_kernel_get_by_name (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" name );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "char* xil_kernel_get_name (XilKernel " kernel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_kernel_set_name (XilKernel " kernel ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" name ); 
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
Use these functions to assign names to kernel objects, to read kernel names, and to
retrieve kernel objects by name.  A predefined kernel is created at the time of an 
.BR xil_open (3) 
call.  This kernel can be retrieved by  
.BR xil_kernel_get_by_name (\^).
.P
.IX xil_kernel_get_by_name
.IX Functions xil_kernel_get_by_name
.IX "Kernel Functions" "xil_kernel_get_by_name"
.BR xil_kernel_get_by_name (\^)
returns the handle to the kernel with the specified name 
.I name.
If such a kernel does not exist, NULL is returned.  
.BR xil_kernel_get_by_name (\^)
does not make a copy of the kernel.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_kernel_get_name
.IX Functions xil_kernel_get_name
.IX "Kernel Functions" "xil_kernel_get_name"
.BR xil_kernel_get_name (\^)
returns a copy of the specified kernel's name.  A call to 
.B free
(3) should be used to free the space allocated by 
.BR xil_kernel_get_name (\^).
If the specified kernel has no name, NULL is returned.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_kernel_set_name
.IX Functions xil_kernel_set_name
.IX "Kernel Functions" "xil_kernel_set_name"
.BR xil_kernel_set_name (\^)
sets the name of the specified kernel to the one provided.
.SH Standard Kernel Provided
.nh
The XIL library creates a predefined kernel at the time of an
.BR xil_open (3)
call.  This kernel, "floyd-steinberg", can be used with error diffusion operations. 
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Create an edge-sharpening kernel named "sharp1":
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilSystemState State;
XilKernel kernel;
float data[] = 	{ 0.0 -1.0  0.0
		 -1.0  5.0 -1.0
		  0.0 -1.0  0.0 };
.sp
kernel = xil_kernel_create(State,3,3,1,1,data);
xil_kernel_set_name(kernel, "sharp1");
.fi
.ft
.RE
.ne 30
.P 
Use a kernel named "sharp1" to filter an image:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilSystemState State;
XilImage src, dst;
XilKernel kernel;
.sp
kernel = xil_kernel_get_by_name(State,"sharp1");
xil_convolve(src, dst, kernel, XIL_EDGE_ZERO_FILL);
.fi
.ft
.RE
.SH NOTES
.nh
The set of standard objects is generated for each instantiation
of an 
.I XilSystemState.
If these standard objects are deleted, they become unavailable for the duration of the current XIL session.
.P
If you give two kernels the same name, it is not defined which kernel
will be retrieved by a call to 
.BR xil_kernel_get_by_name (\^).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_open (3), 
.BR xil_kernel_create (3).
