.\" @(#)xil_sel_create.3 1.2 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_sel_create 3 "16 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_sel_create, xil_sel_create_copy, xil_sel_destroy \- create and destroy structuring element objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilSel xil_sel_create ( XilSystemState " State , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " width ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " height , 
.br
.BI "unsigned int " keyx , 
.br
.BI "unsigned int " keyy , 
.br
.BI "unsigned int *" data );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "XilSel xil_sel_create_copy ( XilSel " sel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_sel_destroy ( XilSel " sel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
These routines create and control access to the structuring element (SEL) objects used in the XIL erosion and dilation imaging operations.
Structuring elements are similar to convolution kernels, except that the member values are Boolean (
.I unsigned int
).
.LP
.I width
and
.I height
are the width of the structuring element in pixels. Common sizes for structuring elements are
3-by-3 and 5-by-5.
.I keyx
and
.I keyy
are the coordinates of the key value in the kernel. The coordinates are specified with
respect to the upper-left value in the structuring element (0,0). 
.I data
is a pointer to the Boolean values that will be written to the kernel.
.LP
Key values specify the key pixel position - a position relative to the upper left corner of the SEL.  The key pixel aligns with the output pixel and constrains which input pixels are used to generate the output.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_create
.IX Functions xil_sel_create
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_create"
.B xil_sel_create
(\^) creates a SEL of the specified size with the specified data.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_create_copy
.IX Functions xil_sel_create_copy
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_create_copy"
.B xil_sel_create_copy
(\^) returns a copy of the specified SEL.
The name of a copy is initially empty (NULL).  
.P
.nh
.IX xil_sel_destroy
.IX Functions xil_sel_destroy
.IX "SEL Functions" "xil_sel_destroy"
.B xil_sel_destroy
(\^) destroys the specified SEL.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.br
.if t .ne 30
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Create a 3x3, cross-shaped structuring element, with the key value 
located at the center of the SEL:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
unsigned int width=3, height=3, key_x=1, key_y=1;
XilSel sel;
unsigned int data[] = {	
.in +8
0, 1, 0,
1, 1, 1,
0, 1, 0 
.in
};
.ta 3.5i
.sp
sel = xil_sel_create (State, width, height, key_x, key_y, data);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
The key pixel must lie within the boundaries of the SEL.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_erode (3),
.BR xil_dilate (3),
.BR xil_sel_get_height (3),
.BR xil_sel_get_width (3),
.BR xil_sel_get_key_x (3),
.BR xil_sel_get_key_y (3),
.BR xil_sel_get_state (3).
