.\" @(#)xil_colorspace_get_by_name.3 1.2 97/05/30 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_colorspace_get_by_name 3 "09 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_colorspace_get_by_name \- get a XilColorspace object by its name
.LP
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilColorspace xil_colorspace_get_by_name (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5
.br
.BI "char *" name );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_colorspace_get_by_name
.IX Functions xil_colorspace_get_by_name
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_colorspace_get_by_name"
This function retrieves color space objects by name.
A number of predefined color spaces are created at the time of an 
.BR xil_open (3)
call.  These color spaces can be retrieved by
.BR xil_colorspace_get_by_name (\^).  
.SS Standard Color Spaces Provided
The XIL library creates a number of predefined colorspaces at the time of an
.BR xil_open (3)
call.  These color spaces include:
.TP 20
.I Color Space Name
.I Description
.TP 20
"rgb709"
Nonlinear RGB primaries as defined by CCIR Rec 709
.TP 20
"rgblinear"
Linearized RGB using primaries from CCIR Rec 709
.TP 20
"ycc709"
YCC as defined by CCIR Rec 709
.TP 20
"y709"
Luminance (black and white) from "ycc709"
.TP 20
"ylinear"
Linearized version of "y709"
.TP 20
"photoycc"
YCC color space defined by Kodak for PhotoCD
.TP 20
"ycc601"
YCC as defined by CCIR Rec 601
.TP 20
"y601"
Luminance from "ycc601"
.TP 20
"cmy"
Linear CMY, derived from "rgblinear"
.TP 20
"cmyk"
Linear CMYK, derived from "cmy" through undercolor removal
.P
.nh
If an unsupported color space name is passed, 
.BR xil_colorspace_get_by_name (\^)
returns NULL. Otherwise, a handle to the specified color space object is returned.
.P
.nh
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilColorspace cspace;
.sp
State = xil_open();
cspace = xil_colorspace_get_by_name(State, "rgblinear");
.sp
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
The set of standard objects is generated for each instantiation of an
.I XilSystemState.
If these standard objects are deleted, they become unavailable for the duration of the current XIL session.
.sp
.ne 30
.P
.nh
If you give two color spaces the same name, it is not defined which color
space will be retrieved by a call to
.BR xil_colorspace_get_by_name (\^).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_color_convert (3),
.BR xil_set_colorspace (3),
.BR xil_black_generation (3),
.BR xil_open (3).

