.\" @(#)xil_create.3 1.3 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_create 3 "12 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_create \- create an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilImage xil_create(XilSystemState " State,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " width,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " height,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " nbands,
.br
.BI "XilDataType " datatype);
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_create
.IX Functions xil_create
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_create"
This routine creates an image with the specified dimensions and data type.
.I width
is the width (extent in 
.I x
) of the image.
.I height
is the height (extent in 
.I y
) of the image.
.I nbands 
is the number of bands in the image.
.I datatype
is the data type of the image, which can be one of the following enumeration
constants of type 
XilDataType:
.TP 15
XIL_BIT 
1-bit 
.TP 15
XIL_BYTE 
unsigned 8-bit 
.TP 15
XIL_SHORT
signed 16-bit
.TP 15
XIL_FLOAT
32-bit IEEE floating point
.LP
If the function is successful, an opaque handle to the image is returned.
Access to the image's data is available through the storage interfaces
described by
.B xil_storage_create (3).
.P
The data associated with the image is not automatically zeroed.
Use 
.BR xil_set_value (3)
to do this.
.P
Images contain no data until they are used in an operation, their storage is
requested by the application or their storage is set by the application.  At
creation time, XilImages are structures describing attributes of the image.
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
The default ROI is NULL.  If an ROI is NULL, operations are performed on the entire image.
.SS XIL Images
.IX "Image Functions" "image overview"
.nh
The primary objects in the XIL world are images.  Each dimension of an image -
width, height, or number of bands - may be as great as 2^32 (4,294,967,296),
except that the overall size of an image is limited by available resources and
the addressing capabilities of the computer's architecture.
.P
.nh
Four data precisions are supported: 1-bit, 8-bit unsigned, 16-bit signed and
32-bit floating point per data element.  
.P
.nh
The exposed attributes associated with images are 
.I width, 
.I height, 
.I nbands 
(number of bands -- number of distinct data elements per pixel), 
.I datatype 
(sample type -- precision of a single data element), color space, and image
origin.  You can get
.I width,
.I height,
.I nbands,
and
.I datatype
with
.BR xil_get_info (3)
amd
.BR xil_get_origin (3).
Note that the origin at creation time is the upper left corner of the image (0.0, 0.0).
Also note that an image's color space is NULL upon creation. 
.P
.nh
The XIL library currently has no provision for direct operation on  images
with bands of different data types or different dimensions.  This implies no
direct support for 4:1:1 or 4:2:2 data.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.sp
.ne 10
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Create a 640x480 8-bit image with 3 bands, which can contain 8-bit unsigned data:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState state;
XilImage       image;
.ta 3.5i
image = xil_create(state, 640, 480, 3, XIL_BYTE);

if(image == NULL) {
    fprintf(stderr, "Image creation failed.\\n");
    return XIL_FAILURE;
}
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.sp
.ne 20
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_create_child (3),
.BR xil_create_copy (3),
.BR xil_create_from_device (3),
.BR xil_create_from_type (3),
.BR xil_create_from_window (3),
.BR xil_create_temporary (3),
.BR xil_create_temporary_from_type (3),
.BR xil_destroy (3),
.BR xil_set_roi (3),
.BR xil_get_roi (3),
.BR xil_get_info (3),
.BR xil_get_state (3),
.BR xil_set_value (3),
.BR xil_get_origin (3),
.BR xil_set_origin (3),
.BR xil_set_colorspace (3).
