.\" @(#)xil_kernel_get_height.3 1.1 96/09/10 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_kernel_get_height 3 "04 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_kernel_get_height, xil_kernel_get_width, xil_kernel_get_key_x,  xil_kernel_get_key_y \- read attributes of kernels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_kernel_get_height (XilKernel " kernel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_kernel_get_width (XilKernel " kernel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_kernel_get_key_x (XilKernel " kernel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_kernel_get_key_y (XilKernel " kernel );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines read the attributes of
.I XilKernel
kernel objects.  Kernels are used in image convolution, error diffusion, painting,
and band combine operations.  The key values specify the key pixel 
position - a position relative to the upper left corner of the kernel.  
The key pixel aligns with the output pixel and constrains which input 
pixels are used to generate the output.
.P
.IX xil_kernel_get_height
.IX Functions xil_kernel_get_height
.IX "Kernel Functions" "xil_kernel_get_height"
.BR xil_kernel_get_height (\^)
gets the height of a kernel.
.P
.IX xil_kernel_get_width
.IX Functions xil_kernel_get_width
.IX "Kernel Functions" "xil_kernel_get_width"
.BR xil_kernel_get_width (\^)
gets the width of a kernel.
.P
.IX xil_kernel_get_key_x
.IX Functions xil_kernel_get_key_x
.IX "Kernel Functions" "xil_kernel_get_key_x"
.BR xil_kernel_get_key_x (\^)
gets the 
.I x 
coordinate of the key value of the specified kernel.
.P
.IX xil_kernel_get_key_y
.IX Functions xil_kernel_get_key_y
.IX "Kernel Functions" "xil_kernel_get_key_y"
.BR xil_kernel_get_key_y (\^)
gets the 
.I y 
coordinate of the key value of the specified kernel.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Get the coordinates of a kernel's key value:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilKernel kernel;
unsigned int key_x, key_y;
.sp
key_x = xil_kernel_get_key_x (kernel);
key_y = xil_kernel_get_key_y (kernel);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_convolve (3),
.BR xil_kernel_create (3),
.BR xil_kernel_create_copy (3),
.BR xil_kernel_destroy (3),
.BR xil_error_diffusion (3),
.BR xil_paint (3),
.BR xil_band_combine (3).
