.\" @(#)xil_erode.3 1.1 96/09/18 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_erode 3 "15 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_erode, xil_dilate \- erode or dilate an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_erode (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "XilSel " sel );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_dilate (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "XilSel " sel );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_erode
.IX Functions xil_erode
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_erode"
.nh
.BR xil_erode (\^)
erodes an image. 
.P
.IX xil_dilate
.IX Functions xil_dilate
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_dilate"
.nh
.BR xil_dilate (\^)
dilates an image.
.P 
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
.nh
is the destination image handle.
.I sel
is a structuring element that describes which of a source pixel's
neighbors will be used as input to the operation.
.ft 1
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
An ROI (region of interest) is used as a read mask for key pixels in the source image and as a write mask in the destination image. The key pixel
aligns with the output pixel and constrains which input pixels are used to
generate the output. The erode and dialate
operation may access data outside a source ROI as long as the key pixel remains inside.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Erode an image using a 3 x 3 "cross-shaped" structuring element with the key pixel in the center (1,1).
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilImage src, dst;
XilSel sel;
unsigned int sel_data[\^] = { 0, 1, 0,
			      1, 1, 1, 
			      0, 1, 0 };
.sp
sel=xil_sel_create (State, 3, 3, 1, 1, sel_data);
.sp
xil_erode(src, dst, sel);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.ne 30
.P
.nh
Dilate an image using a 3 x 3 "X-shaped" structuring element with the key pixel in the upper left-hand corner (0,0).
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilImage src, dst;
XilSel sel;
unsigned int sel_data[\^] = { 1, 0, 1,
			      0, 1, 0,
			      1, 0, 1 };
.sp
sel=xil_sel_create (State, 3, 3, 0, 0, sel_data);
.sp
.ta 3.5i
xil_dilate(src, dst, sel);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
Source and destination images must be the same type and have the same number of bands.  This operation cannot be performed in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_sel_create (3)


