.\" @(#)xil_cis_seek.3 1.1 96/09/16 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_cis_seek 3 "09 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_cis_seek \- find a particular frame of compressed data in a compressed image sequence
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_cis_seek ( XilCis " cis ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "int " framenumber , 
.br
.BI "int " relative_to );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_cis_seek
.IX Functions xil_cis_seek
.IX "Video Compression Functions" "xil_cis_seek"
This function sets the read frame of the compressed image sequence (CIS) to a
user-specified value. 
.P
.I cis 
is the input compressed image sequence (CIS) to which the seek applies.
.P
.I framenumber 
is the frame offset of the frame, as interpreted by the 
.I relative_to
argument.
.P
.I relative_to 
takes values 0, 1 or 2 depending on whether the offset mentioned above is relative to frame zero of the CIS (0), the current frame (1),  or the end of the CIS (2).
.P
.nh
Every frame in a CIS has a frame number associated with it; these frame
numbers start at zero.  Seeking from the beginning of the CIS 
implies that you are seeking relative to frame number zero and not necessarily the 
.I start_frame 
(the earliest buffered frame that still resides in the CIS).  For more information see 
.BR xil_cis_get_start_frame (3).  
.P
.nh
If the CIS you are looking in cannot be accessed randomly (see
.BR xil_cis_get_random_access (3)
)
and you are seeking a frame previous to the current 
.I
read_frame,
an error is generated.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Go to the 12th frame (from the beginning) of a compressed image sequence:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilCis cis; 
.sp
xil_cis_seek( cis, 12, 0 );
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.nh
The 
.I framenumber 
you are seeking must be within the CIS.  Use the functions 
.BR xil_cis_get_start_frame (3)
and 
.BR xil_cis_get_write_frame (3) 
to determine the legal range of frame numbers.
.P
You cannot use this function to perform random insertions of frames
into a CIS. Frames can only be inserted at the end of the CIS, i.e at the
write frame.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_cis_get_attribute (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_start_frame (3),  
.BR xil_cis_get_write_frame (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_random_access (3).
