.\" @(#)xil_state_get_interpolation_tables.3 1.1 96/09/19 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_state_get_interpolation_tables 3 "18 March 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_state_get_interpolation_tables, xil_state_set_interpolation_tables \- set or get interpolation tables to or from the XilSystemState object. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_state_get_interpolation_tables (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilInterpolationTable* " horiz ,
.br
.BI "XilInterpolationTable* " vertical );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_state_set_interpolation_tables (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilInterpolationTable " horiz );
.br
.BI "XilInterpolationTable " vertical );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_state_get_interpolation_tables
.IX Functions xil_state_get_interpolation_tables
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_state_get_interpolation_tables"
XIL supports general interpolation.  These tables affect all general interpolation operations using images created from this 
.I XilSystemState.
The
.I horiz
and
.I vertical
tables define the values in the subsamplng kernels.
.P
.B xil_state_get_interpolation_tables
(\^) gets the interpolation tables of
.I State.
The
.I horiz
argument returns a pointer to the horizontal table, and the
.I vertical
argument returns a pointer to the vertical table. Either table's pointer
lets you access that table's kernel size, number of subsamples, and
kernel data. 
.P
.nh
.IX xil_state_set_interpolation_tables
.IX Functions xil_state_set_interpolation_tables
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_state_set_interpolation_tables"
.B xil_state_set_interpolation_tables
(\^) sets the interpolation tables of
.I State.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Set interpolation tables on an XilSystemState object.
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilInterpolationTable horiz, vertical;
float *horiz_data, *vertical_data;

horiz = xil_interpolation_table_create(State, 9, 32, horiz_data);
vertical = xil_interpolation_table_create(State, 9, 32, vertical_data);

xil_state_set_interpolation_tables(State, horiz, vertical);

.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_interpolation_table_create (3),
.BR xil_interpolation_table_destroy (3),
.BR xil_interpolation_table_get_subsamples (3),
.BR xil_interpolation_table_get_kernel_size (3),
.BR xil_interpolation_table_get_data (3),
.BR xil_state_get_interpolation_tables (3).
