.\" @(#)xil_cis_get_autorecover.3 1.1 96/09/16 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_cis_get_autorecover 3 "12 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_cis_get_autorecover, xil_cis_set_autorecover \- allow autorecovery after a CIS error occurs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "Xil_boolean xil_cis_get_autorecover ( XilCis " cis );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_cis_set_autorecover (XilCis " cis ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "Xil_boolean " on_off );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_cis_get_autorecover
.IX Functions xil_cis_get_autorecover
.IX "Video Compression Functions" "xil_cis_get_autorecover"
.IX xil_cis_set_autorecover
.IX Functions xil_cis_set_autorecover
.IX "Video Compression Functions" "xil_cis_set_autorecover"
This function gives permission to the XIL CIS compression and decompression functions to attempt recovery if an autorecoverable bitstream error occurs.
.P
.I cis 
is the compressed image sequence (CIS) that is being compressed or decompressed.  
.P
.I on_off 
is a boolean value use in
.BR xil_cis_set_autorecover(3)
to set the autorecover state.
.P
The default value returned by 
.B xil_cis_get_autorecover
(\^) is 
.I FALSE 
(or OFF), which indicates that autorecovery will not be attempted after a bitstream error occurs unless 
.B xil_cis_set_autorecover
(\^) is called to turn it ON. 
.P
.nh
Two types of bitstream errors can occur during decompression of a 
CIS: autorecoverable and non-autorecoverable.   An autorecoverable error 
is one with a predefined method of recovery.  A non-autorecoverable 
error requires user intervention for recovery.   When a non-autorecoverable
error is detected, the CIS is marked invalid before the user is notified 
of the error.  If a CIS is marked CIS_READ_INVALID for decompression, 
no further operations can be performed on this CIS until it has been 
marked valid again.  A bitstream error in CIS compression and 
decompression can occur in any action on a CIS that requires the CIS 
to decode the bitstream or change the current read frame.
.P
.nh
Calling this routine for codecs that do not have autorecoverable errors (for
example, Cell) will have no effect.
.P
.nh
After a non-autorecoverable error occurs, the user can revalidate the CIS in one of three ways: by calling
.BR xil_cis_reset (3)
to remove any compressed data currently stored in the CIS, by calling 
.BR xil_cis_seek (3) 
to seek to a valid frame, or by attempting recovery using
.BR xil_cis_attempt_recovery (3).
If the user attempts to seek to a valid frame and the CIS cannot successfully complete the request, a seek error is generated.
.sp 
See
.BR xil_cis_attempt_recovery (3)
for further information on CIS error recovery.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
This example turns on auto-recovery:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
	XilCis cis;
.sp
	xil_cis_set_autorecover(cis TRUE); 
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_cis_get_write_invalid (3),
.BR xil_cis_attempt_recovery (3),
.BR xil_cis_seek (3),
.BR xil_cis_reset (3).
