.\" @(#)xil_set_pixel.3 1.2 97/05/27 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_set_pixel 3 "03 March 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_set_pixel, xil_get_pixel \- set or get the value of a particular pixel in an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_set_pixel ( XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " x ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " y ,
.br
.BI "float *" pixel_values );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_get_pixel ( XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " x ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int " y ,
.br
.BI "float *" pixel_values );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_set_pixel
.IX Functions xil_set_pixel
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_set_pixel"
.B xil_set_pixel
(\^) sets the value of a particular pixel in an 
.I image.
.I x
and
.I y
indicate the position of the pixel to be set or read, and
.I pixel_values
is an array of floats specifying the value to set for each
band of the image.  Note that the user must allocate and free the space for
this array.  Pixel coordinates are located with respect to the upper left corner of the image (0,0) whether it is a parent or a child image.
.P
.nh
For 
.SM XIL_BIT 
images, values below 0.5 cause the pixel to be set to 0, and
values 0.5 and above cause the pixel to be set to 1.  For 
.SM XIL_BYTE 
images, values below 0.5 cause the pixel to be set to 0, values of 254.5 
and above cause the pixel to be set to 255, and all values in between 
are rounded to the nearest integer.  For 
.SM XIL_SHORT 
images, values below -32768.5 cause the pixel to be set to -32768, values 
of 32766.5 and above cause the pixel to be set to 32767, and all values 
in between are rounded to the nearest signed integer.
.P
.IX xil_get_pixel
.IX Functions xil_get_pixel
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_get_pixel"
.B xil_get_pixel
(\^) gets the value of a particular pixel in an image, and
writes a vector of the pixel band values into the user-supplied
buffer
.I pixel_values.
The pixel values are cast from whatever data type they may be
into floats.
.SH ROI Behavior
The image ROI is ignored for these operations.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Get the vector of data values out of a 5-banded XIL_BYTE image
for the pixel located at (100,42), and add 1.0 to each value:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.ft 3
XilImage image;
unsigned int i;
float* pixel_values;
.ta 3.5i
.sp
pixel_values = (float *) malloc (5 * sizeof(float));	/* allocate pixel values buffer */
xil_get_pixel (image, 100, 42, pixel_values);	/* get current values of the pixel */
for (i = 0; i < 5; i++)			/* increment values by 1 */
    pixel_values[i] = pixel_values[i] + 1.0;
xil_set_pixel (image, 100, 42, pixel_values);	/* replace values in the pixel */
.fi
.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_set_value (3)
