.\" @(#)xil_dithermask_create.3 1.4 97/05/30 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_dithermask_create 3 "16 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_dithermask_create, xil_dithermask_create_copy, xil_dithermask_destroy \- create and destroy dither mask objects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilDitherMask xil_dithermask_create ( XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " width , 
.br
.BI "unsigned int " height , 
.br
.BI "unsigned int " nbands ,
.br
.BI "float *" data );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "XilDitherMask xil_dithermask_create_copy ( XilDitherMask " mask );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_dithermask_destroy ( XilDitherMask " mask );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
These routines create and destroy the
.I XilDitherMask
objects used in the
.BR xil_ordered_dither (3)
operation.
.P
.IX xil_dithermask_create
.IX Functions xil_dithermask_create
.IX "Dither Mask Functions" "xil_dithermask_create"
.nh
.BR xil_dithermask_create (\^)
creates an 
.I XilDitherMask 
object of the specified size with the specified data.
.I width
is the width of the dither mask in pixels.
.I height
is the height of the dither mask in pixels.
.I nbands
is the number of bands in the dither mask.
.I data
is a pointer to the data to be stored in the dither mask.
.P
.IX xil_dithermask_create_copy
.IX Functions xil_dithermask_create_copy
.IX "Dither Mask Functions" "xil_dithermask_create_copy"
.nh
.BR xil_dithermask_create_copy (\^)
creates and returns a copy of the specified dither mask.  The name of 
a copy is initially empty (NULL).
.P
.IX xil_dithermask_destroy
.IX Functions xil_dithermask_destroy
.IX "Dither Mask Functions" "xil_dithermask_destroy"
.nh
.BR xil_dithermask_destroy (\^)
destroys the specified dither mask.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a 4x4 1-band dither mask:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
unsigned int width=4, height=4, nbands=1;
XilDithermask dithermask;
float data[] =	   {	
			0.0,	0.5,	0.125,	0.625,
			0.75,	0.25,	0.875,	0.375,
			0.1875,	0.6875,	0.0625,	0.5625,
			0.9375,	0.4375,	0.8125,	0.3125 
		   };
.sp
dithermask = xil_dithermask_create (State, width, height, nbands, data);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
Note - For multiband dither masks (nbands > 1), the data in the array are not interleaved. Instead, append the data for each additional band to the data for the previous band. If the example above were a 2-band dither mask, add another 4 rows by 4 columns of floating point values to the array for band 1.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_dithermask_get_height (3),
.BR xil_dithermask_get_by_name (3),
.BR xil_dithermask_get_values (3),
.BR xil_dithermask_get_state (3),
.BR xil_ordered_dither (3).
