.\" @(#)xil_nearest_color.3 1.3 97/05/27 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_nearest_color 3 "23 September 1996" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_nearest_color \- find nearest match of pixel values to entries in colormap
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "void xil_nearest_color (XilImage " src , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst , 
.br
.BI "XilLookup " cmap );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_nearest_color
.IX Functions xil_nearest_color
.IX "Presentation Functions" "xil_nearest_color"
This routine performs a pixel-by-pixel search for the nearest matching 
color in the supplied lookup table and sets the destination image pixel 
value to the appropriate colormap index.  Nearest color is determined by
calculating Euclidean distance for n-bands. 
.I src
is the source image.
.I dst
is the destination image.
.I cmap 
is a lookup table with the number of output bands equal to the number 
of bands in the source image.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Match nearest color for a 3-band image:
.P
.RS
.ft B
.nf
XilImage src;			/* 3-band source image */
XilImage dst;			/* 1-band destination image */
XilLookup colormap;		/* colormap */
.sp
xil_nearest_color(src, dst, colormap);
.fi
.ft
.RE
.SH NOTES
.nh
The source image must have the same data type and the same number of bands
as the lookup table.  The destination image must have the same data type
as the lookup table's input data type.

A performance improvement is available for colorcube lookup tables.  In
this case, 
.BR xil_ordered_dither (3)
with a mask containing all values of 0.5 can be
used to get essentially the same results as nearest color.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_colorcube_create (3),
.BR xil_lookup_create (3),
.BR xil_lookup_get_by_name (3),
.BR xil_ordered_dither (3).
