.\" @(#)xil_subsample_adaptive.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_subsample_adaptive 3 "16 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_subsample_adaptive \- adaptively subsample an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_subsample_adaptive (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "float " xscale ,
.br
.BI "float " yscale );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_subsample_adaptive
.IX Functions xil_subsample_adaptive
.IX "Geometric Operations" "xil_subsample_adaptive"
This function adaptively subsamples an image about its origin.
 By default, an image's origin
is its upper-left corner (0.0, 0.0). You can change the origin with the
.BR xil_set_origin (\^)
function.
The subsampling algorithm used minimizes information loss from skipped pixels in the source image.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
.nh
is the destination image handle.
.I xscale 
and
.I yscale
are the 
.I x 
and 
.I y 
scale factors, which must be less than or equal to 1.0 and
greater than 0.0.
.ft 1
.fi
.SS ROI Behavior
.LP
.nh
If an ROI (region of interest) is attached to the source image, it is used as
a read mask and is scaled into the destination image's space, where it is
intersected with the destination ROI (if there is one).
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
Adaptively subsample an image by .3 in the 
.I x 
direction and .4 in the 
.I y 
direction:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src, dst;
.ta 3.5i
xil_subsample_adaptive(src, dst, .3, .4);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
.fi
.nh
This operation cannot be performed in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_subsample_binary_to_gray (3),
.BR xil_set_origin (3),
.BR xil_scale (3).

