.\" @(#)xil_cis_get_attribute.3 1.1 96/09/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_cis_get_attribute 3 "18 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_cis_get_attribute, xil_cis_set_attribute \- get and set a compressor attribute 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_cis_get_attribute (XilCis " cis,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" attribute ,
.br
.BI "void **" value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_cis_set_attribute (XilCis " cis,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" attribute,
.br
.BI "void *" data );
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_cis_set_attribute
.IX Functions xil_cis_set_attribute
.IX "CIS Functions" "xil_cis_set_attribute" 
.P
.IX xil_cis_get_attribute
.IX Functions xil_cis_get_attribute
.IX "CIS Functions" "xil_cis_get_attribute"
.nh
.B xil_cis_get_attribute
(\^) returns the value of the
.I attribute
of the 
.I cis
(the specified compressed image sequence).
.P  
.nh
.B xil_cis_set_attribute
(\^) sets
.I attribute
of 
.I cis 
to
.I data,
a generic pointer to the attribute value.
.P
.nh
Available attributes are described on the specific man pages for the
compressors and decompressors available with the XIL library. See
.BR xil_cis_create(3) 
for the list of XIL supported codecs.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
This example sets a JPEG CIS attribute called
.I ENCODE_INTERLEAVED 
to TRUE.
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilCis cis;
.sp
xil_cis_set_attribute(cis,"ENCODE_INTERLEAVED", (void *) TRUE);
.sp
.fi
.ft
.RE
.P
This example returns the value of a JPEG CIS attribute called
.I ENCODE_INTERLEAVED.
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
Xil_boolean encode_type;
XilCis cis;
.sp
xil_cis_get_attribute(cis, "ENCODE_INTERLEAVED", (void **) &encode_type);
.fi
.ft
.RE
.SH NOTES
.nh
The 
.B xil_cis_set_attribute
(\^) and
.B xil_cis_get_attribute
(\^) calls are used to modify the default behavior of a specific compressor.  Generic attributes of compressors are set by individual function calls.
.sp
.ne 10
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_compress (3),
.BR xil_cis_create (3),
.BR xil_choose_colormap (3),
.BR xil_decompress (3),
.BR xil_open (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_bits_ptr (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_compression_type (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_compressor (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_input_type (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_max_frames (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_output_type (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_start_frame (3),
.BR xil_cis_has_data (3),
.BR xil_cis_put_bits (3),
.BR xil_cis_reset (3),
.BR Jpeg (3),
.BR JpegLL (3),
.BR Cell (3),
.BR CellB (3),
.BR faxG3 (3),
.BR fax G4 (3),
.BR Mpeg1 (3),
.BR H261 (3).
