.\" @(#)xil_histogram_get_by_name.3 1.1 96/09/11 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_histogram_get_by_name 3 "17 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_histogram_get_by_name, xil_histogram_get_name, xil_histogram_set_name \- get and set a histogram object name and get a handle
to a histogram by specifying a name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilHistogram xil_histogram_get_by_name (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" name );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "char* xil_histogram_get_name (XilHistogram " histogram );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_histogram_set_name (XilHistogram " histogram ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" name ); 
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
Use these functions to assign names to histogram objects, set a histogram's name, and to
retrieve histogram objects by name.  
.P
.nh
.IX xil_histogram_get_by_name
.IX Functions xil_histogram_get_by_name
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_get_by_name"
.BR xil_histogram_get_by_name (\^)
returns the handle to the histogram with the specified name 
.I name.
If such a histogram does not exist, NULL is returned.  
.BR xil_histogram_get_by_name (\^)
does not make a copy of the histogram.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_histogram_get_name
.IX Functions xil_histogram_get_name
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_get_name"
.BR xil_histogram_get_name (\^)
returns a copy of the specified 
.I histogram's 
name.  A call to 
.B free
(3) should be used to free the space allocated by 
.BR xil_histogram_get_name (\^).
If the specified histogram has no name, NULL is returned.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_histogram_set_name
.IX Functions xil_histogram_set_name
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_set_name"
.BR xil_histogram_set_name (\^)
sets the 
.I name 
of the specified 
.I histogram 
to the one provided.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Create and name a histogram from a single-band byte reference image:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilSystemState State;
XilImage ref_image;
XilHistogram histogram;
.sp
histogram = xil_histogram_create(State, 1, 256, 0.0, 255.0);
xil_histogram(ref_image, histogram, 1, 1);
xil_histogram_set_name(histogram, "reference");
.sp
.fi
.ft
.RE
.P 
Get a histogram named "reference" for comparison:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilSystemState State;
XilHistogram histogram;
.sp
histogram = xil_histogram_get_by_name(State, "reference");
.fi
.ft
.RE
.SH NOTES
.nh
If you give two histograms the same name, it is not defined which histogram
will be retrieved by a call to 
.BR xil_get_by_name (\^).
.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.BR xil_histogram_create (3),
.BR xil_histogram (3).
