.\" @(#)xil_edge_detection.3 1.2 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_edge_detection 3 "04 March 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_edge_detection \- detect edges within an image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_edge_detection (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "XilEdgeDetection " edge_detection_method );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_edge_detection
.IX Functions xil_edge_detection
.IX "Image Processing Operations" "xil_edge_detection"
This function detects edges within an image using the method specified by
the
.I edge_detection_method
parameter.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.LP
.I edge_detection_method
is an enumeration type that specifies the edge detection algorithm 
to be used in the operation.
Currently, the only available method is
.SM XIL_EDGE_DETECT_SOBEL, 
which uses the following masks:
.sp
.nf
	   Vertical	  	  Horizontal

	-0.5  0.0  0.5		-0.5  -1.0  -0.5
	-1.0  0.0  1.0		 0.0   0.0   0.0
	-0.5  0.0  0.5		 0.5   1.0   0.5
.fi
.sp
The
.SM XIL_EDGE_DETECT_SOBEL
method performs two correlation
operations on the source image, using the vertical filter to detect vertical
edges and the horizontal filter to detect horizontal edges. 
This yields the intermediate images 
.I a
and
.I b.
It then squares pixel values in 
.I a
and
.I b,
yielding intermediate images
.I c
and
.I d.
To form the final destination image, it takes the square root of
.I c + d.
The correlation operations
duplicate the source-image
edges during the correlation, similar to using the
.SM XIL_EDGE_EXTEND
edge detection method on the
.BR xil_convolve (3)
function.
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
An ROI (region of interest) is used as a read mask for key pixels in the source image and as a write mask in the destination image. The edge detection operation may access data outside a source ROI as long as the key pixel remains inside.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
This example performs edge detection operation on
.I src 
image using Sobel algorithm, and writes the result into
.I dst.
.LP
.nf
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src, dst;
.sp
.ta 3.5i
xil_edge_detection(src, dst, XIL_EDGE_DETECT_SOBEL);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.sp
.ne 10
.SH NOTES
.nh
Source and destination images must be the same data type and
have the same number of bands. The images need not have the same width and height.
This operation cannot be performed in place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_convolve (3)
