.\" @(#)xil_lookup_convert.3 1.2 97/05/27 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_lookup_convert 3 "29 March 1994" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_lookup_convert \- calculate a conversion lookup table between a source and destination lookup table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilLookup xil_lookup_convert ( XilLookup " lut1 , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilLookup " lut2 );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_lookup_convert
.IX Functions xil_lookup_convert
.IX "Presentation Functions" "xil_lookup_convert"
This function calculates a lookup table that converts between the two lookup tables
.I lut1
and 
.I lut2. 
The resulting 
lookup table's input data type will be the input data type of
.I lut1, 
and its output data type will be the input data type of
.I lut2.  
The 
lookup table's offset and number of entries are the same as those for
.I lut1. 
Index N of the resulting 
lookup table contains the index of the nearest color in
.I lut2 
to the color at index N in
.I lut1. 
Nearest color is determined by Euclidean distance.  Source and destination
lookup tables must have the same input data types, output data types, 
and number of bands.
.P
.nh
This function can be useful when you have an image with a lookup table
(and colormap) that contains a relatively small number of values over
a wide range.  You would first compress the values in the lookup table
into a smaller range by using
.BR xil_squeeze_range (3).
Then, to create a colormap that matched your newly compressed lookup table,
you would use 
.BR xil_lookup_convert  (\^).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.TP 10
Returns NULL; Function fails.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Calculate a lookup table to convert between two lookup tables:
.RS
.ft B
.nf
.sp
XilLookup lut1, lut2, lut3;
.sp
lut3 = xil_lookup_convert(lut1, lut2);
.fi
.ft
.RE
.SH NOTES
This function cannot be used on combined lookup tables.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_lookup_create (3),
.BR xil_squeeze_range (3).
