.\" @(#)xil_histogram_get_nbands.3 1.1 96/09/11 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_histogram_get_nbands 3 "17 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_histogram_get_nbands, xil_histogram_get_nbins, xil_histogram_get_limits,
xil_histogram_get_values, xil_histogram_get_info \- histogram attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "unsigned int xil_histogram_get_nbands ( XilHistogram " histogram );
.br
.P
.BI "void xil_histogram_get_nbins ( XilHistogram " histogram ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int *" nbins );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_histogram_get_limits ( XilHistogram " histogram ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "float *" low_value,
.br
.BI "float *" high_value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_histogram_get_values (XilHistogram " histogram ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int *" data );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_histogram_get_info ( XilHistogram " histogram , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int *" nbands,
.br
.BI "unsigned int *" nbins,
.br
.BI "float *" low_value,
.br
.BI "float *" high_value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
These routines read the values of histogram attributes and the intensity-level information
stored in the histograms.
Histograms are used to obtain information about the distribution of
pixel values in an image.  Create histograms with
.BR xil_histogram_create (3).
.P  
.IX xil_histogram_get_nbands
.IX Functions xil_histogram_get_nbands
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_get_nbands" 
.BR xil_histogram_get_nbands (\^)
returns the number of bands represented by the 
.I histogram.  
For example, a histogram with three bands can be thought of as a 
cube of data, with each axis representing a single band.
.P
.IX xil_histogram_get_nbins
.IX Functions xil_histogram_get_nbins
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_get_nbins"
.BR xil_histogram_get_nbins (\^)
fills in a user-supplied array,
.I nbins,
with values representing the number of 
.I histogram 
bins for each
histogram band.
.P
.IX xil_histogram_get_limits
.IX Functions xil_histogram_get_limits
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_get_limits"
.BR xil_histogram_get_limits (\^)
fills in user-supplied arrays,
.I low_value
and
.I high_value,
with floating point numbers that represent the central value of the first bin and
last bin in each band.
.P
.IX xil_histogram_get_values
.IX Functions xil_histogram_get_values
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_get_values"
.BR xil_histogram_get_values (\^)
fills in the user-supplied array,
.I data,
with the unsigned integer values that make up the histogram data. The data
are aligned so that values along the last band's axis are
contiguous. 
.ne 5
For example, for a 3 band image, the resulting array would be
indexed as 
.P
.in +4
data[band1_bin][band2_bin][band3_bin].
.in -4
.P
The user is responsible for allocating sufficient space to hold the
histogram
data, bearing in mind that each histgram element is an unsigned int and
that the number of elements is the product of nbins for each band.
.P
.IX xil_histogram_get_info
.IX Functions xil_histogram_get_info
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_get_info"
.BR xil_histogram_get_info (\^)
combines the function of other attribute functions.
.I nbands
is filled with the number of bands in the histogram;
.I nbins
is filled with the number of bins per band, one for each band.
.I low_value
and
.I high_value
are arrays that contain the low and high values for each band.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.sp
.ne 30
.SH EXAMPLES
Create an array to hold the histogram data and retrieve the data:
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilHistogram histogram;
unsigned int nbands;
unsigned int *bins, *data;
int i, total_entries;
.sp
nbands = xil_histogram_get_nbands (histogram);
bins = (unsigned int*) malloc(nbands * sizeof(unsigned int));
xil_histogram_get_nbins (histogram, bins);
total_entries = 1;
for (i=0; i<nbands; i++)
	total_entries *= bins[i];
data = (unsigned int*) malloc(total_entries * sizeof(unsigned int));
xil_histogram_get_values(histogram, data);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_histogram (3),
.BR xil_histogram_create (3),
.BR xil_histogram_destroy (3).

 
