.\" @(#)xil_histogram_create.3 1.5 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_histogram_create 3 "15 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_histogram_create, xil_histogram_create_copy, xil_histogram_destroy \- create, create and return a copy, or destroy histogram
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilHistogram  xil_histogram_create ( XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " nbands ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int *" nbins , 
.br
.BI "float *" low_value ,
.br
.BI "float *" high_value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "XilHistogram xil_histogram_create_copy ( XilHistogram " histogram );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_histogram_destroy ( XilHistogram " histogram );
.if t .in +5n
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_histogram_create
.IX Functions xil_histogram_create
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_create"
.IX xil_histogram_create_destroy
.IX Functions xil_histogram_destroy
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_destroy"
.IX xil_histogram_create_copy
.IX Functions xil_histogram_create_copy
.IX "Histogram Functions" "xil_histogram_create_copy"
These routines create and destroy histogram objects. Histograms are used to
accumulate level information from images.  XIL histograms can have an arbitrary
numbers of bands, but the number of bands must match the number of bands in
the image that is to be histogrammed. A histogram of a 3-band RGB image
for example, contains a cube of information that reflects the 
number of pixels found in each of the bins, as in the three-dimensional array
.BR pixel_count[red_bin][green_bin][blue_bin].
.P
.nh
.I State
is the XIL system state. 
.P
.I nbands
is the number of independent bands in the histogram. 
.P
.I nbins
is a pointer to an array that contains the number of bins for each band. These bins are used to hold information about gray or
color levels. 
.P
.in +4
.I CAUTION: 
The total number of bins in the histogram is the product of the 
.I nbins 
value
for all bands. Specifying too many bins for multi-band images may consume
large quantities of memory and lead to significantly degraded performance.
For example, specifying 256 bins for each band of a 3 band images would
require a histogram data array of approximately 16 million bins (64 Mbytes).
.in
.P
.nh
.I low_value
is a pointer to an array of floats that defines the central value of the
first bin for each band.
.P
.I high_value
is a pointer to an array of floats that defines the central value of the last bin for each band.
.P
For each of the arrays
.I nbins, 
.I low_value,
and
.I high_value,
the number of elements in the array must match the number of bands
in the image.
.P
.BR xil_histogram_create_copy
(\^) creates and returns a copy of the specified histogram. The name of a copy is initially empty (NULL).
.IX xil_histogram_destroy
.IX Functions xil_histogram_destroy
.IX "Histogram Functions"  "xil_histogram_destroy"
.BR xil_histogram_destroy  (\^)
destroys the specified histogram object.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a histogram structure appropriate for calculating the histogram of a 3-band
XIL_BYTE image. Note the use of the first and last bin central values for
low_value and high_value:
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilHistogram histogram;
unsigned int nbins[3] = {32,32,32}; /* Total bins = 32768 */
float low_value[3] = {4.0, 4.0, 4.0};
float high_value[3] = {252.0, 252.0, 252.0};
.sp
histogram = xil_histogram_create (State, 3, nbins, low_value, high_value);
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_histogram (3),
.BR xil_histogram_get_nbands (3),
.BR xil_histogram_get_nbins (3),
.BR xil_histogram_get_values (3),
.BR xil_histogram_get_info (3), 
.BR xil_histogram_get_state (3),
.BR xil_choose_colormap (3).
