.\" @(#)xil_state_get_default_tilesize.3 1.5 97/06/17 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_state_get_default_tilesize 3 "01 January 1997" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_state_get_default_tilesize, xil_state_set_default_tilesize \- get and set the default
tile size for all images created with a particular XilSystemState
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_state_get_default_tilesize (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int* " txsize ,
.br
.BI "unsigned int* " tysize );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_state_set_default_tilesize (XilSystemState " State ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "unsigned int " txsize );
.br
.BI "unsigned int " tysize );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_state_get_default_tilesize
.IX Functions xil_state_get_default_tilesize
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_state_get_default_tilesize"
.BR xil_state_get_default_tilesize (\^)
returns the tile size that will be used for all images created
under
.I State.
Unless modified by a call to
.BR xil_state_set_default_tilesize 
(\^) the values returned by this call are 0,0. These values indicate that the default tile size is calculated by XIL according to the amount of physical
memory on the machine running the program and the default tiling mode.
.P
.nh
.IX xil_state_set_default_tilesize
.IX Functions xil_state_set_default_tilesize
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_state_set_default_tilesize"
.B xil_state_set_default_tilesize
(\^) sets the tile size that will be used for all images created under
.I State.
If not set by the user, the default tile size is calculated by XIL
in an optimal way according to the amount of physical memory on the
machine running the program. Although the user can set the default tilesize at any time, the values are only examined when the default tiling mode is other than XIL_WHOLE_IMAGE.
.P
.nh
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH NOTES
.nh
Changing the default tile size through a call to
.BR xil_state_set_default_tilesize (\^)
can have serious performance implications.
.P
It is possible to override the default tile size for any given image
through a call to
.BR xil_set_tilesize (\^)
after first exporting the image.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_set_tilesize (3).


