.\" @(#)xil_device_set_attribute.3 1.4 97/05/20 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_device_set_attribute 3 "01 January 1997" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_device_set_attribute \- stores device appropriate attributes
in a device object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_device_set_attribute ( XilDevice "deviceObj , 
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" attribute ,
.br
.BI "void *" value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_device_set_attribute
.IX Functions xil_device_set_attribute
.IX "Attribute Functions" "xil_device_set_attribute"
.B xil_device_set_attribute
(\^) stores
.I attribute
and
.I value
in the device object
.I deviceObj.
.I attribute
is the name of the attribute you want to set and
.I value
is the attribute's value. Attribute names and their possible values
are defined by the group that writes the device handler.
Only attributes the device understands should be set on the device object;
otherwise an error is generated.
.sp
You can store 
in the object as many attributes and values as needed to derive all
required initialization attributes for the device. You must make a separate
function call for each attribute.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a device object and pass it as an
argument on the function call that creates its associated device image:
.nf 
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilSystemState State;
XilDevice deviceObj;
XilImage dev_image;
int new_value = 255;
.sp 
deviceObj = xil_device_create (State, "device");
.sp
xil_device_set_attribute (deviceObj, "ATTRIBUTE_1",
			 (void*) new_value);
xil_device_set_attribute (deviceObj, "ATTRIBUTE_2",
			 (void*) new_value);
.sp
dev_image = xil_create_from_device (State, "device", deviceObj);
.RE 
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
Because attributes and their associated values may reference data in the 
application's data space, any data associated with an
XilDevice object must remain valid while the device object references
it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_device_create (3),
.BR xil_create_from_device (3),
.BR xil_set_device_attribute (3).
