.\" @(#)xil_fill.3 1.1 97/01/28 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_fill 3 "15 June 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_fill \- perform boundary fill from specified start point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_fill (XilImage " src ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilImage " dst ,
.br
.BI "float " xseed ,
.br
.BI "float " yseed ,
.br
.BI "float *" boundary ,
.br
.BI "float *" fill_color );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.nh
.IX xil_fill
.IX Functions xil_fill
.IX "Presentation Functions" "xil_fill"
This function performs a boundary fill.  Given the starting coordinates, the routine fills every 4-connected pixel with the specified color until it encounters the boundary.
.I src
is the source image handle.
.I dst
is the destination image handle.
.I xseed
is a float that specifies the 
.I x 
start coordinate.
.I yseed
is a float that specifies the 
.I y 
start coordinate.
.I boundary
is a pointer to the floating-point array that specifies the boundary value [0...(nbands-1)] for each pixel.
.I fill_color
is a pointer to the floating-point array that specifies the fill color [0...(nbands-1)] for each pixel.
.SS ROI Behavior
.nh
This function performs the fill operation on the entire source image.  The filled pixels within the ROI (region of interest) are output to the destination image.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
For this example, the source and destination images contain 2 bands.
Perform boundary fill starting at (x,y) = (7,3).
.LP
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage src;
XilImage dst;
float xseed = 7.0;
float yseed = 3.0;
float boundary[2] = {255.0, 0.0};
float fill_color [2] =  {0.0,255.0};
.ta 3.5i
xil_fill(src, dst, xseed, yseed, boundary, fill_color);
.RE
.fi
.SH NOTES
.nh
Source and destination images must be the same data type, and have the
same number of bands.  For an n-band image, the array of floats for 
.I boundary 
and 
.I fill_color 
must be of size n.  A pixel that matches each band in the specified
.I boundary 
value is a boundary pixel.  Only pixels that are changed to the fill color are output to the destination image.
In-place operations are supported.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_create (3),
.BR xil_roi_create (3).
