.\" @(#)xil_get_attribute.3 1.2 97/05/13 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_get_attribute 3 "17 August 1993" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_get_attribute, xil_set_attribute \- get and set the client attributes
of images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
.nf
#include <xil/xil.h>
.fi
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_get_attribute (XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" attribute ,
.br
.BI "void **" value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.P
.sp .5v
.BI "int xil_set_attribute (XilImage " image ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char *" attribute ,
.br
.BI "void *" value );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_get_attribute
.IX Functions xil_get_attribute
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_get_attribute"
.IX xil_set_attribute
.IX Functions xil_set_attribute
.IX "Image Functions" "xil_set_attribute"
.nh
These routines get and set values of client attributes of images.  Names 
of the attributes can be arbitrarily assigned and are simply saved for
later retrieval.
.I attribute
is the name of the attribute whose value is to be retrieved or set.
.I value
is the status of the specified attribute.
.P
.nh
.BR xil_get_attribute (\^)
returns XIL_SUCCESS if the attribute is available, and XIL_FAILURE
if the specified attribute is not available.
.P
.nh
.BR xil_set_attribute (\^)
returns XIL_SUCCESS if the attribute is successfully set, and XIL_FAILURE
otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide."
.SH EXAMPLES
Set the date that a photograph was taken:
.P
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage image;
char *attribute;
.sp
status = xil_set_attribute (image, "DATE", (void *)date);
if(status==XIL_FAILURE)
   fprintf(stderr,"Failed to set DATE attribute");
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.P
Get the favorite ice cream flavor of the person in the photograph:
.P
.nf
.sp
.RS
.ft 3
XilImage image;
char *attribute;
.sp
status = xil_get_attribute (image, "favorite flavor", (void **)&(flavor));
if(status==XIL_FAILURE)
   fprintf(stderr,"Failed to get flavor attribute");
.RE
.fi
.ft 1
.SH NOTES
These functions are not intended to to be used as a database interface.  If
the image does not contain the specified attribute, the parent is searched
for the attribute, then the parent's parent is searched, and so on, until
there are no more parents.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xil_get_device_attribute (3),
.BR xil_set_device_attribute (3),
.BR xil_cis_get_attribute (3),
.BR xil_cis_set_attribute (3).
