.\" @(#)xil_colorspace_create.3 1.2 96/09/17 SMI/VPG;
.so man3/xil.macs
.TH xil_colorspace_create 3 "6 May 1997" "" "XIL Library"
.SH NAME
xil_colorspace_create, xil_colorspace_destroy, xil_colorspace_get_type, xil_colorspace_get_name, xil_colorspace_set_name \- create, destroy, get the type, get or set the name of an XilColorspace object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <xil/xil.h>
.LP
.sp .5v
.fi
.BI "XilColorspace* xil_colorspace_create(XilSystemState* " system_state ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "XilColorspaceType " type ,
.br
.BI "void* " data );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_colorspace_destroy(XilColorspace* " colorspace );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_colorspace_get_type(XilColorspace* " colorspace );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "char* xil_colorspace_get_name(XilColorspace* " colorspace );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.LP
.sp .5v
.BI "void xil_colorspace_set_name(XilColorspace* " colorspace ,
.if t .in +5n
.br
.BI "char* " name );
.br
.ft R
.fi
.in
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX xil_colorspace_create
.IX Functions xil_colorspace_create
.IX xil_colorspace_destroy
.IX Functions xil_colorspace_destroy
.IX xil_colorspace_get_type
.IX Functions xil_colorspace_get_type
.IX xil_colorspace_get_name
.IX Functions xil_colorspace_get_name
.IX xil_colorspace_set_name
.IX Functions xil_colorspace_set_name
These functions create, destroy, get the type, and set and get a name for an 
.br
XilColorspace 
object.
.P
.B xil_colorspace_create() 
creates an XilColorspace 
object of the type specified by 
.br
XilColorspaceType and stores the data specified by \f2data\fP. XilColorspaceType 
can be any of 3 types: XIL_COLORSPACE_NAME, XIL_COLORSPACE_FILENAME, or XIL_COLORSPACE_KCS_ID.  XIL_COLORSPACE_KCS_ID corresponds to a name (default color spaces created by XIL), filename, or a KCMS id.
.P
.B xil_colorspace_destroy() 
destroys the specified \f2colorspace\fP.
.P
.B xil_colorspace_get_type() 
gets the type of \f2colorspace\fP and associated data.
.P
.B xil_colorspace_set_name() 
sets the name on \f2colorspace\fP with name.
.P
.B xil_colorspace_get_name() 
gets any associated name of \f2colorspace\fP. If no name is set on \f2colorspace\fP, it returns NULL.
.SH ERRORS
.nh
For a complete list of XIL error messages by number, consult Appendix B of the 
.I "XIL Programmer's Guide." 
.SH EXAMPLES
.nh
This example sets a name on an existing color space.
.sp
.nf
.ft 3

   /*
    * Set a name on a color space 
    */
    xil_colorspace_set_name(colorspace, "myname");	
.sp
.ft 1
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xil_set_colorspace (3), 
.BR xil_color_convert(3), 
.BR xil_color_correct(3).
